<h1>Workshop and Ball</h1>

<p>Every year, the Portland group puts on a dancing workshop and a ball some
time in March.  The 34th ball is March 9th, 2013 at the Christ Episcopal Church
in Lake Oswego, Ore.  Check back for more details as they are available!  Like
us on <a
href="https://www.facebook.com/events/128819860612093/">Facebook</a>!</p>

<h2>Time</h2>

<p>9:30am for the workshop; lunch from noon to 1:15pm; classes end at 4:00pm; 7:00pm for the ball.</p>

<h2>Location</h2>

<p><a href="maps.html#christ_episcopal_church">Christ Episcopal Church</a><br />
1060 Chandler Road.<br />
Lake Oswego, OR 97034</p>

<h2>Teachers</h2>

<p>Lea and James Maiolo, Redmond Wash.</p>

<h2>Musicians</h2>

<p>Deby Benton Grosjean - Fiddle, Aptos, Calif.</p>
<p>Lisa Scott - Piano, Portland, Ore.</p>

<h2>Ball Program</h2>
Roaring Jelly; Foss, Glendarroch (<a href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/movies/RoaringJelly.mp4">movie</a>)<br />
The Millville Grange; R. Wallace: San Andreas (<a href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/movies/MillvilleGrange.mp4">movie</a>)<br />
HISCD; SCD Archive #118 (<a href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/movies/HISCD.mp4">movie</a>)<br />
Miss Allie Anderson; RSCDS Leaflets (<a href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/movies/MissAllieAnderson.mp4">movie</a>)<br />
The Silver Tassie; RSCDS Leaflets (<a href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/movies/SilverTassie.mp4">movie</a>)<br />
Australian Ladies; Campbell: Glasgow Assembly (<a href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/movies/AustralianLadies.mp4">movie</a>)<br />
The Compleat Gardener; Irene Patterson (<a href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/movies/CompleatGardener.mp4">movie</a>)<br />
Seann Truibhas Willichan; RSCDS Book 27, #9 (<a href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/movies/SeannTruibhasWillichan.mp4">movie</a>)<br />
The Duke and Duchess of Edinburgh; RSCDS Book 39, #7 (<a href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/movies/DukeDuchessEdinburgh.mp4">movie</a>)<br />
(Intermission)<br />
Well Done Jack; RSCDS Book 29, #3 (<a href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/movies/WellDoneJack.mp4">movie</a>)<br />
Polharrow Burn; RSCDS: 3 Dances by Hugh Foss (<a href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/movies/PolharrowBurn.mp4">movie</a>)<br />
Adieu, Mon Ami; RSCDS Book 24 #11 (<a href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/movies/AdieuMonAmi.mp4">movie</a>)<br />
Ian Powrie's Farewell to Auchterarder; Hamilton (<a href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/movies/IPsFarewell2Aucherarder.mp4">movie</a>)<br />
The Royal Deeside Railway; RSCDS Book 40 #9 (<a href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/movies/RoyalDeesideRailway.mp4">movie</a>)<br />
The Minister on the Loch; RSCDS 4 for 2008 (<a href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/movies/MinisterOnTheLoch.mp4">movie</a>)<br />
The Reel of the 51st Division; RSCDS Book 13 #10 (<a href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/movies/Reel51st.mp4">movie</a>)<br />
Waltz<br />
Auld Lang Syne<br />

<h2>Reservations</h2>

<p>Here's a <a href="workshop_registration_2013.pdf">flyer</a> with
registration details.</p>

<h2>Crib Sheet</h2>

<p>Here's a <a href="ball_minicrib_2013.pdf">crib sheet</a> for the ball, or <a
href="http://danciemaetion.imaginationprocessing.com/ListCollectionDances.php?collection=10">animated
videos</a>.</p>
