{{{#!html
<a href="../images/gg_mar_2014.jpg"><img class="artwork" src="../images/gg_mar_2014.jpg" alt="Maureen Sloan’s 80th Birthday" width="648" height="484"/></a>
<div class="tagline">Maureen Sloan’s 80th Birthday</div>
}}}
{{{#!wiki comment
pubdate = March/April 2014
}}}

<<TableOfContents()>>

== President’s Message ==
by Linda Gertz

The President’s Message is usually this nice little cheery message, but I’m not
feeling cheery right now.  Why?  I’ve asked twice for volunteers to the
nominating committee and only one person has come forward.  I know this is due
to needing to finding someone willing to be President.  Everyone is willing to
help, but no one wants to be in charge.  What you need to ask yourself is:  Do
we still want to have this club?  If the answer is “yes”, then get willing to
be President.  I have been President several times now, even though I strongly
dislike being in charge.  So if I can bite the bullet and do it, you can too!
So again – if you want this club to continue, be willing for a short period of
time to be in charge!  On the positive side, you will find that you have a lot
of willing helpers!  This makes having to be the one in charge a much easier
task.

== Teacher’s Corner ==
by Debbie Mc​Robert

Has this happened to you? You attend class Monday night and learn a new dance
with a great new figure. It’s a fun dance, one of your favorites so far. A
couple of weeks later you are looking over the dances for the monthly party and
can’t quite remember how the figure goes. You remember you liked it and want to
be able to dance the dance during the party. You read through the brief but it
doesn’t quite give you the confidence that you can dance it correctly. What can
you do?

The good news is you have resources available to you.

A great place to start would be our own website, portlandscottishdancers.org.
Once on our website select the “Party” link and you will find the program with
links provided to videos of most of the dances. Some links are to
Dancie​Maetions (see below) and some to You Tube videos of dances.

Another source is You Tube, http://www.youtube.com. Yes, You Tube has several
dances uploaded for your viewing pleasure. If the dance is a popular dance you
may find more than one video to watch.  There will not be videos for every
dance. To find a dance I found if you type in “Scottish Country Dance” then the
name of the dance it brings up a good selection to start from. I tested a
couple of dances from our program and found Red House only had one choice but
The De’il Amang the Tailors had several.

Our own Linda Mae has developed a program named Dancie​Maetion,
(http://www.inaginationprocessing.com) that moves markers that look like game
pieces through dances. It’s a wonderful way to review dances as you watch and
listen to Linda Mae talk you through the dance. When you log on to the website,
select “Dancie​Maetion” and you will find upcoming programs with the videos of
the dances available for viewing.

If you still need to find a dance, or want more information about a dance, a
great source to check out is the Strathspey Server (http://www.strathspey.org).
It’s such a great resource I have this site bookmarked on my computer. To find
a dance go to the Library (left column) and select “Dance Database”. I then go
to the Quick Search (top, right side), and type in the name of the dance and
select “Search”. On the page that opens you will see a dances section,
recordings section, and if there is a tune by the same name you will have a
tune section. Select the dance in the “Dances” section and this will bring you
to a page with several tabs with lots of information. The first tab,
“Overview”, gives information such as date dance was devised, where to find the
dance, steps in the dance, and more. You can select “Cribs/Diagrams” and see
the directions to the dance. You can select “Videos” and watch the dance. You
may find several video links for the same dance. Note, some videos are of
performances and may be danced in a nonstandard format (example starting from
middle or two sets mirroring each other). You may also find links to
Dancie​​Maetions in the list of videos.

Well, there you go. You now have several choices to be prepared for the dance.
Now, I just need to find the time to watch them.

== March 8, 2014 Ball Program ==
by Don Gertz

%CRIB_portland_ball_2014%

== April 12, 2014 Dance Program ==
by Debbie Mc​Robert

%CRIB_portland_apr2014%

== Vancouver Dinner Dance, April 26, 2014 ==
by Linda Mae Dennis

%CRIB_dinner_dance_2014%

== Maureen Sloan Turns 80! ==
by Linda Gertz

February 5th Maureen Sloan (much to the surprise of fellow dancers) turned 80.
This called for a celebration!  Due to the fact the Maureen drives in all the
way from Warren and February’s messy weather, we didn’t want to plan a party
that would cause her to be on the roads when she’d rather not be.  So the idea
was brought forward & embraced by the club to give Maureen a money tree
consisting of 80 one dollar bills.  I told people if more than $80 was donated
I would put them at the bottom as dirt!  So I brought a tin & dancers donated.
Then I went looking for what to put the money on.  I ended up realizing that
with Maureen, I think of flowers.  So the money tree morphed into a money
bouquet!  The idea was I could bring it to class each Monday & then when
Maureen came we could give it to her.  Wouldn’t you know it we had yucky
weather.  The Saturday dance was cancelled due to snow.  The next Monday class
was cancelled because, even though the roads were clear, there was not parking
due to the cleared snow.  So the first Monday we had class again on February
17th, Maureen came and we were able to surprise her & present her with her
money bouquet.  She remarked that she might just leave it as it is and pluck
off a few leaves when she needs them.  Maureen is such a special person & has
given go much to the club, it was nice to be able to give her a pleasant
surprise.

== Thank You ==
by Maureen Sloan

Thank you all so much for the “money bouquet” and card you presented to me for
my 80th birthday in February.  So many lovely messages on the card and I marvel
at Linda Gertz's patience in putting together the bouquet.  What an attractive
and thoughtful gift!

I truly believe that getting involved in Scottish Country Dancing has kept me
young!  The exercise of both body and mind involved in dancing, understanding,
and memorizing the dances is pretty powerful.   The friendships I've made
through the Portland RSCDS branch have been a large part of my social life for
the past 30 years or so.  I even met my husband, David, through the dance
group!

So, thank you again for remembering my birthday.  I hope to continue dancing
with you all for many  more years.

== Dauntless Dancers ==
by Tom Halpenny

I began learning Square dance five years ago, after Scottish dancing for the
previous twelve years. I began keeping a fun list of “Tom's Enlightened Dancer
Friends who have danced both Scottish dance and Square dance with Tom one
time.” We can access the latest version that currently has fifty five names
over the past four years.

http://www.rscds-swws.org/doc/EnlightenedDancers.pdf

This past year I expanded my interest to explore Irish Ceili dance, English
Country dance, Contra dance, and International Folk dance. My son-in-law, Hans,
invented the term “Dauntless Dancer.” Since “dauntless” means “fearless”, and
given my interest in additional dance forms, I thought of a new list of “Tom's
Dauntless Dancer Friends who have danced any three folk dance forms with Tom
one time, from a list of folk dance forms with partners in a set.” We can
access the latest version that currently has nine names.

http://www.rscds-swws.org/doc/DauntlessDancers.pdf

The file also lists Future Dauntless Dancer Friends who have danced two folk
dance forms, and displays which two dance forms were tried. These friends
include all the Enlightened Dancers who have danced Scottish dance and Square
dance, as well as other combinations.

What is the value of trying another folk dance form? I have observed that
practicing multiple dance forms with their related music provides more variety
and interest, compared with a single folk dance form. The skills learned from
one dance form carry over to another. Dance groups share common interests, and
we can learn ideas from others, in the areas of enhancing social friendships,
planning dance classes and events, and teaching. There are opportunities for
dance groups to collaborate and support one another, as overall folk dance
popularity declines in the United States. However we need ideas like this
article in order to neutralize the tendency for a dancer to become entrenched
in a single dance form as their experience increases, and they lose their
curiosity to explore new folk dancing ideas. I have observed that the
“Enlightened Dancers” and “Dauntless Dancers” lists are less likely to include
the leaders of dance groups, and are more likely to include new dancers.

Please let me know when you want to try something new for two hours, and I will
I look forward to dancing with you and adding you to my “Enlightened Dancers”
and “Dauntless Dancers” lists.
