{{{#!html
<a href="../images/gg_jan_2014.jpg"><img class="artwork" src="../images/gg_jan_2014.jpg" alt="Come As a Christmas Carol, December 2013" width="1920" height="805"/></a>
<div class="tagline">Come as a Carol, December 2013</div>
}}}
{{{#!wiki comment
pubdate = January/February 2014
noindex
}}}

<<TableOfContents()>>

== President’s Message ==
by Linda Gertz

Welcome to 2014 -- another year of fun dancing!  Saturday, January 11 starting
at 7:30 pm, we will be having our Hogmanay party with games & prizes.  For our
February 8th party I’m open to suggestions for something to make it special.
Then before we know it, March 8th will be here along with our
[[http://portlandscottishdancers.org/workshop.html|Workshop and Ball]]!  One
thing we will be needing is housing for the musicians & teachers.  Several of
them are so happy to be coming to Portland that they are bringing their spouses
with them.  So we need some folks to open up their homes to them.  Marcy will
be sending out an email soon so you can let her know if you have space.  I will
also be asking for volunteers for helping out at the workshop and ball for
things like decorating, greeting people and handing out the workshop/ball
packets, refreshments, etc.  Debbie Mc​Robert is graciously handling the
registrations.  Cathi Chlebnikow & Holly Gibson have agreed to handle the
raffle for me.  I can’t say how much their help means to me!  Pat Taylor’s DBE
Chapter (Daughters of the British Empire) will be providing a wonderful lunch
again.  So we have many dancing experiences in our future to help keep us in
shape & having fun!  Hope to see you there.

== Teacher’s Corner ==
by Richard Juzix

The ancients saw the world as a great cosmic struggle between the powers of
darkness and the powers of light.  They noticed as they watched, that at
different times darkness seemed to be getting more of the light.  They felt
like they were watching two great cosmic wrestlers and every once in a while
they would see that the wrestler of darkness would pin down the light and be
ready to do it in.  They noticed this because the days at this time of the year
were getting shorter.  And that had to mean that the light, the sun, was
getting weaker.  And as darkness pinned the sun to its back, and was ready to
finish it off, they noticed the sun getting weaker and weaker and the dark
getting longer and longer.  They were afraid that someday, or some year,
darkness would kill the sun and the light. 

Around December 21 they noticed that the tables began to turn, and that the sun
was rallying, regaining its strength, and suddenly the hero who was pinned down
against the ground, with an adversary over him, gets a burst of strength and
flips him over, climbs on top of him and starts pinning him down.  All because
around December 21 the days started getting longer.  When they saw this
happening it was time for feasting and festivities.

Scottish Country dancers are champions of the light and will not let darkness
get any hold on them no matter how long they have been dancing.  At the
beginning of every dance they all rise off their heels ready to show their
partners, and indeed all the world, a burst of energy in their first skip of a
skip change of step, or their first digging down of their first strathspey,
inviting their partners in the dance to enter into the festivities.  Indeed,
throughout the dance, whenever they enter  the dance from a place on the side,
it is always with that extra little burst of energy that gave hope and joy to
the ancients.  No dark mood can long survive on our dance floor!  Our skips and
our surges, and our twinkling eyes continue to bring light and joy to the
cosmic floor.

Short version: put a little extra into the first step of the phrase.

== January 11, 2014 Dance Program ==
by Don Gertz

%CRIB_portland_jan2014%

== February 8, 2014 Dance Program ==
by Linda Mae Dennis

%CRIB_portland_feb2014%

== March Workshop and Ball ==

Registration for our 35th annual
[[http://portlandscottishdancers.org/workshop.html|workshop and ball]] is now
open!  Below is the program for the ball.

%CRIB_portland_ball_2014%
 
== Eugene Burns Dance ==
by Robert Burger

{{{#!html
<a href="../files/eugene_burns_flyer_2014.pdf"><img class="artwork" src="../files/eugene_burns_flyer_2014.png" alt="Come As a Christmas Carol, December 2013" width="425" height="550"/></a>
}}}

== Move to the Beat of the Music ==
by Tom Halpenny

December 26, 2013
 
I began learning Square dance five years ago, after Scottish dancing for the
previous twelve years.  The club caller and dance teacher Jim Hattrick explains
his main goal for Square dance lessons is to get dancers to “move to the beat
of the music”.  Jim’s popular teaching methods regularly attract 70 club
members and new dancers to his weekly lessons in a friendly social setting.
Moving to the beat of the music, while having fun with friends, sends a message
of positive feelings to the limbic brain.

This year I expanded my interest to explore Irish Ceili dance, English Country
dance, Contra dance, and International Folk dance.  I had an opportunity to
observe how all these folk dance forms approach teaching dancers to move to the
beat of the music.

Teachers of all dance forms guide dancers among the actions:

 1. Dance while moving to the beat of the music.
 2. Move to learn the pattern to the music or leader’s count.
 3. Stand and observe others move to learn the pattern to the music or leader’s count.
 4. Stand and listen to the leader talking.

An effective dance teacher strikes a balance among the necessary actions, with
the goal to spend as much time as possible on action number one.

I originally observed that Square dance has more continuous motion compared
with Scottish dance. The caller announces the next move just in time for
dancers to flow through the dance figures.  On the other hand, Scottish dance
motion with the skip-change step is twice as fast as walking, and the
pas-de-basque setting step is more aerobic, so we need resting time between
bursts of energy.

After I learned Square dance, I became sensitive to standing while learning a
Scottish dance.  Geoffrey Selling discussed the topic in a TACTalk article,
“Why Aren’t We Attracting More Dancers to Scottish Country Dancing? (especially
from the greater dance community)”. The article explains how teaching a
Scottish dance can involve excessive standing and surprisingly little dancing,
compared with English Country dance’s greater motion.

http://www.rscds-swws.org/news/tac/WhyArentWe.pdf

Since I practice several folk dance forms, I designed an experiment to measure
the percentage of time I am moving during various dance activities.  I have a
goal to keep moving, and I have been wearing a pedometer for three years to
measure my progress.  In addition to measuring steps, my current pedometer
measures “Activity Time”.  The timer runs while I am moving and pauses when I
am inactive.  I use a stopwatch to record the elapsed time during a dance or a
dance class and I also record the activity time.  I reset the activity timer
and start the stopwatch after sets have formed and the dance leader begins
teaching or briefing a dance, and stop the stopwatch after the final chord of
the dance.  I pause the stopwatch when some unavoidable technical delay or
unrelated reason occurs.  The ratio of activity time to elapsed time gives the
percentage of time I was moving:

Activity Time Percentage = Activity Time ÷ Elapsed Time × 100

I gathered activity data for 72 dancing events over 16 weeks.  Most of the data
was for Scottish dance (52 hours) and Square dance (35 hours), and I made an
effort to get a sense of activity for other folk dance forms.  We can view my
Average Activity Time Percentage results in the chart.  The Square dance
“Dance” activity led with 86%, and the “Class” activity averaged 60% when the
caller taught the moves.  The Scottish dance “Dance” activity averaged 51%, and
the “Class” activity averaged 38% for teaching dances.  English Country dance
averaged 52%.  Other folk dance forms averaged in the 61-73% range.

The activity time measurement excludes the intensity of physical activity and
interest level, so we need to interpret the results.  After each dancing event,
I subjectively noted whether the event gave me a positive, neutral, or negative
interest level.  I observed a strong correlation between Activity Time
Percentage and interest level.  Most dance events were positive, however there
were a significant number of Scottish dance classes with neutral or negative
interest, especially classes with excessive standing and less listening to the
beautiful music.  All Scottish dance “Dances” were positive.  Irish Ceili dance
and Contra dance have the quality of being both aerobic and high Activity Time
Percentage.  Square dancers move to the beat of the music with walking steps,
and I am able to increase the walking energy with more spring in my steps and
travel the moves with a slightly longer path.

The Scottish dance class Activity Time Percentage averaged 38% with a range of
30-53%. Dance classes with a value greater than 40% were generally positive
interest, while less than 40% gave me a neutral or negative interest level.  I
wonder how much Scottish dance class interest and attendance would improve if
teachers could consistently raise the Activity Time Percentage above 40%, with
a focus on moving to the beat of the music.

This article finally explains to fellow dancers and dance teachers who have
been curious about the numbers I have been writing on Post-it notes while
dancing. Interested readers can contact me to view the spreadsheet file with
the activity time data.  I would like to thank my dance teacher friends for
your skilled and entertaining teaching efforts.

{{{#!html
<div class="snapshot">
  <img class="artwork" src="../images/gg_jan_2014_0.jpg" alt="Activity Time %" width="483" height="291"/>
  <div class="tagline">Activity Time Percentage</div>
</div>
}}}

== November & December Parties ==
by Linda Gertz

Our November party was very special with The Scottish Rose providing delightful
dance music for us!!  This year we had the treat of having Stephen Hui playing
cello, with daughters Elisabeth & Lilyana making their debut playing fiddles
with the orchestra.  This special evening included buying up items from the
Bizarre Bazaar.

The December party was a chance to come dressed as your favorite Christmas
carol or tune.  If you weren’t there you missed seeing some very clever
costumes.  The winners were – Linda Mae Dennis dressed a “All I want for
Christmas is a Hippopotamus”,  Caitlin Reynolds as “Good King Wenceslas”, &
Katie Jones as “The Sugar Plum Fairy”.  There were other great ideas too:
Jingle Bells, Jingle Bell Rock, Deck the Hal(penny), Rudolph the Red Nose
Reindeer, & more.  We were also treated to music by Cynthia Soohoo & Maggie
Hannahs.  So a fun & interesting evening!

== Members’ Email List ==
by Darrick Wong

Hello, members!  You may have noticed that since the Ghillie Gazette went
online in September, Marcy has been been manually emailing (most) of you
whenever a new issue is out.  Since that process is a bit rough and noisy, I've
created an (e)mail list for branch members:
{{{pdx-rscds@portlandscottishdancers.org}}}.  Everyone who was a branch member
as of January 1st, 2014 has been subscribed to the list, which is probably how
you heard of this new issue.

This list is intended to be a low-traffic list to carry announcements of new
newsletters and reminders about dancing events in the branch.  You will be able
to use the list to email everyone in the branch; please do not overuse the
privilege.

You should have received an email welcoming you to the “pdx-rscds” mailing
list.  Please retain this message for your records.  If you do not want to keep
your subscription to the email list, the welcome message contains instructions
about how to unsubscribe yourself; alternately, the webmaster (Darrick) can
unsubscribe you.

When it is time to renew your membership, remember to check the box “Please
ensure that I am subscribed to the members’ email list” on the renewal form to
maintain your subscription into next year!

{{{#!html
<div id="gazette_workshop_print">
<h2>Workshop Registration Form</h2>
%WORKSHOP_FORM%
</div>
}}}
