{{{#!html
<img class="artwork" src="../images/gg_mar_2015_3.jpg" alt="Spring Fling Trial Dancing" width="640" height="428"/>
<div class="tagline">Spring Fling Trial Dancing in Vancouver, Wash.</div>
}}}
{{{#!wiki comment
pubdate = March/April 2016
}}}

<<TableOfContents()>>

== Teacher’s Corner ==
by Linda Mae Dennis

With the Workshop and Ball just around the corner on Saturday, March 12, it’s
time we went through the rules of etiquette again – just a reminder so that we
all have a wonderful time.

Remember to try to dance with as many partners as possible. Women need not wait
to be asked to dance; it is entirely acceptable to ask a man or another woman
to dance. Experienced dancers should ask beginners, and beginners should not be
shy about asking more experienced dancers. Be sure to especially remember to
ask out of town visitors, so that they will feel welcome. We want people to
think of our group as one of the most friendly and inclusive. Also remember to
ask briefers (and hold a place for them on the floor) and teachers – especially
the visiting teacher.

A limited amount of booking ahead is acceptable. For example, if you are not
experienced and you have practiced a particular dance with a particular
partner, you may feel more comfortable dancing that dance with that person.
Also, romantically linked couples may want to dance a particular dance with
each other. However, a person who does a lot of booking ahead gives the
impression of excluding people instead of trying to be sociable. 

In our area, we usually have the Band play the first 8 bars to announce the
next dance. 

Sets should form only when announced by the music, not before. 

Couples should join sets at the bottom rather than squeeze their way into the
middle or top of a set.

Conversations should stop while the briefer is talking. Even a quiet murmur,
when multiplied by many people, makes it very difficult to hear. Please allow
other dancers to hear the instructions.

Experienced (or coherent) dancers should try to help any unsure dancers in an
unobtrusive way. Use hand motions to point them in the correct direction or
quietly tell them the name of the next figure. Even experienced dancers forget
what they’re doing from time to time. Helping each other adds to the team
spirit and enjoyment. Shouting and/or pushing is not helpful.

Remember to maintain eye contact with your partner and with the other dancers
in your set. Relax and enjoy yourself. Every dancer in your set is dancing with
every other dancer in your set, so this is not a time for solo showing off or
drawing undue attention to yourself. Above all, smile. A big smile will cover a
lot and will make everyone feel good.

Each dance ends as it began, with a bow or curtsy to your partner – and a
smile! 

Be sure to thank your partner and thank your set. Don’t linger on the floor;
the dance floor should be clear between dances. Partners should lead each other
off the floor before looking for a new partner.  

Mingle and socialize during the breaks and be friendly and encouraging with
beginners and visitors.

The After Party this time will take place downstairs immediately following the
Ball. Please allow visitors to head downstairs first and lend a hand with the
clean-up operations upstairs for a few minutes. The Band and Soundman may also
need help breaking down their equipment. 

Please do bring musical or rhythm instruments and your singing voice to add to
the party atmosphere.

== March Ball Program ==
%CRIB_portland_ball_2016%

== April 9, 2016 Dance Program ==
%CRIB_portland_apr2016%

== My Drum Major Debut ==
by Linda Mae Dennis

It’s a dark January morning. It’s early, and it’s cold. Cold made even colder
because I’m nervous. This is the day I will make my debut as Drum Major for the
Clan Macleay Pipe Band at a “barge launch” for Gunderson Marine. That’s right –
out there in front of everybody and everybody else – leading the band. Will my
voice come out as a mere squeak the first time I try to give a command? Do I
even remember how to walk? At this point, on the way to the launch site, it’s
hard to say.

We arrived at the launch site at “0 dark-thirty” and made a couple of attempts
at finding where to park before actually settling into a spot. The Pipe Major,
whose job it is to worry about the music (my job being “everything else”, as my
trainer drilled into me) actually took the time to walk with me through the
parade course before everyone else arrived. We got stopped a bit short of where
we were supposed to go, as there was still a gigantic crane in the way, but we
did get an early look at the barge. It was impressively huge! About 3 stories
tall and very long, it formed kind of a canyon between it and the building
behind us.

=== Our Very Own Drum Major ===

I did NOT forget any of the pieces of my uniform, of which there are SO many –
shoes, short socks, sock tops, flashes, sgian dubh, spats. Now we’re up to the
knees. Kilt, horse-hair sporran, kiltpin, plaidie, plaidie brooch, t-shrit,
tunic, collar brooches, belt, and hat. We were not wearing feather bonnets due
to the threat of rain, so I did not have to worry about balancing my hat on my
head, and/or knocking it off with the mace.

The rest of the band arrived in fits and starts and in various stages of dress.
Coffee and donuts were provided by Gunderson Marine, our wonderful corporate
sponsor, whose barge we were to officially launch. Eventually, with much
chatter and camaraderie, everyone was fully dressed, pipes and drums tuned, and
all turned out onto the wet parking lot to line up and march off.

As a drummer, you wait at the back of the band to see what formation the pipers
will take, then get into a similar formation and hang out until someone barks
out some orders that tell you when to start. Then, you step out on the left
foot following the person in front of you, playing along as best you know how.
I must have done this over a hundred times. One might think that having
listened to the marching orders over a hundred times that one would
automatically know exactly what those orders were. But perhaps not.

As drum major, I had to be told where to stand, and pretty much what to say. We
had not had a chance to practice this beforehand, as we are now holding band
practice in a church basement with a fairly low ceiling. To add additional
complexity and pressure, just before we were about to march off, the Scout
Leader in charge of the Boy Scouts who were to be our color guard, came over to
request that we (I) give an order to the Scouts about when to start off. It was
suggested that I say “March Out the Colors”. I really wanted to say “when you
hear the music, start walking”, but agreed to their request. So, the moment of
truth arrived.

“Pipes and Drums,” I hollered out in my loudest voice, and it did NOT come out
as a mere squeak! “A’Shun!” And the band responded by standing at attention!
Even the drummers in the very back! “By the Right (beat) Quick March!” At this,
I had to make a half turn on both feet, bring the mace from my right hand to my
left across my body, make a marching step with my left leg and begin marching
on my left foot. I had practiced this move many times and it went smoothly,
although I’m sure it could have been sharper and more militarily precise. We
marched about half a block to the gate, and the band circled up. I wasn’t quite
sure where to stand, so I made something up. I wasn’t quite sure how and when
to do the fist pump to stop the band, but the bass drummer and I had worked out
ahead of time that he was going to do the double beat at the correct time
regardless of when I did the fist pump, so only he and I knew that we weren’t
always together.

I called off and stopped a few more sets before I remembered that I was
supposed to say “Ready” before I did the call off. I had not practiced yelling
out the names of the sets. I got a little tongue-tied on “Pipes and Drums!”
“Bathgate and Breadalbane Gathering!” “Ready!” “At the Ha’ (beat) One, Two!” We
did a few more sets before the grumpy gate guard came by to say it would be a
few more minutes, as they were moving the crane.

Here’s how it was set up . . . There’s a short driveway up to a guard house and
electronic gate. The Band and the hundred or so spectators huddled under their
umbrellas (did I mention it was raining? – not hard, just nice misty rain) were
in front of the gate, waiting for it to open. The Boy Scouts were about 30
yards past the gate on the inside, under some sort of roof, waiting for their
orders. They shut down the traffic on the Willamette River for the barge to be
launched, so it’s pretty imperative that the whole procedure goes off on
schedule. We were surprised to have been held up for so long. The Band was to
play in a circle until the gate opened, then parade through the warehouse to
the Barge (maybe 75 yards or so).

Eventually, the gate opened. Yay! “Okay,” says the Pipe Major, “Let’s do this.”
So, again I holler out to get the Band at attention (even though they’ve been
at attention the whole time), then remembered I’m supposed to yell something at
the Boy Scouts. I turn away from the Band and holler “March out the Colors!” I
turn back to the band and holler out “By the Right (beat) Quick March!” and
make the turn without tripping or falling over, and smartly march out in front
of the band. I didn’t know until later that I had marched out taking extra long
steps. What can I say? I was excited. (I blame Holly, who has trained me to use
the extra long steps when we go walking – you can cover a lot of distance
without using up too much energy.) Even the front row of 6’5” pipers were
impressed by how quickly I was moving. The short little tenor drummers, in the
back, hobbled by having a drum on one leg were not amused, and apparently had
to pretty much pick up their drums and run to keep up.

The Band marched smartly through the warehouse, made the left turn at the barge
and began to march the length of the behemoth barge. It was at least the length
of a football field. I knew we had to do a counter march at some point, which
involves some precision mace work. The crane had been in the way, so I didn’t
know how far down to march before I turned the Band around, and started to at
one point, but heard the Pipe Major behind me saying, “Not Yet, Not Yet!”. Then
he says, “Okay, Now!” and I did it! Grasp the mace with the right hand, turn it
180 degrees horizontally, swing it up to the right shoulder so that it is
pointing straight up, take one and a half steps forward, take three steps to
turn around and head back through the band. Once past the last drum, turn the
mace to point down, place it back into the left hand, keep marching. And when I
halted the Band, they all halted, and when we stopped the music, the bass
drummer and I were in agreement about when the double beat was supposed to
happen. Whew!

The rain had picked up a bit by this time, but because of the delay with the
crane earlier, they had to compress the ceremony, so we didn’t have to stand
out there for too long. There was the Pledge of Allegiance, some thank you’s to
honored guests, the playing of Amazing Grace – one piper on the barge answered
by the Band on the ground, quite impressive and moving – a prayer, a couple of
champagne bottles smashed against the side, and then “Crack” and the rails
holding up the barge drop and the whole thing slid into the water. It’s pretty
exciting to watch, and I was able to actually relax and enjoy it.

And then, no dilly-dallying around after. We got the Band back in order, called
off and marched out. I marched with a more reasonable gait on the way out,
which the tenor drummers thanked me for later. Along the barge to the way out,
a right corner, through the warehouse, back to the electronic gate, a left
corner and on to the building where we had started. I was so giddy by the time
we got there I forgot how to stop the band properly, and just stopped.
Thankfully, they all laughed and stopped with me. Then almost every band member
patted me on the shoulder and told me “good job”, which was wonderful. My good
friend, the lead stick (boss of the drummers), mentioned that my voice
could/should be about an octave lower, and that I had my plaid draped over the
wrong shoulder, and that I had countermarched through the left file of the
band, rather than the right, which was more conventional. And really, those
constructive comments were most welcome and helpful, and given after the fact,
when they could be better absorbed.

I think most importantly, I had a chance to be a brand new beginner again. I
have a much better memory, now, about how it is to be a beginning dancer. When
there’s too much new information coming in, everything is confusing, even stuff
you used to know. And when someone has that wild-eyed look, we experienced
dancers need to recognize it. That is the time to give only essential
information and nothing else. Beginners rock!

Here is a link to a movie (QuickTime) of the launch itself:
http://www.imaginationprocessing.com/videos/BargeLaunch.m4v

== Oldies But Goodies SCD Class ==
by Tom Halpenny

I have been attending Lisa Scott’s Oldies But Goodies dance class, intended to
be a gentler, low impact class for dancers, and emphasizes the social aspects
of dancing. The class meets 2nd and 4th Tuesdays, 7:30 to 9:00pm, at Columbia
Dance Center. The class is meeting the needs of about twelve dancers so far.

Lisa begins with some gentle warm-up and stretching to soothing music. She
combines her extensive musical background with teaching the dances.

Some challenging formations like “set and turn corners” are replaced by easier
formations like “turn first corner by the right and turn second corner by the
right.” Each dancer has the option to dance formations with full energy or low
impact.

RSCDS dances are being taught, beginning with selections from Book 1 that was
first published in 1924, and progressing sequentially through the RSCDS books.
Lisa noted that dances from the early books were popular and well known for
dance events twenty years ago. Many of these dances became less familiar as new
dances were devised for later RSCDS books. (Book 49 is the latest book
published in 2015.)

We have an opportunity to learn the Oldies but Goodies dances. Or are we
dancers the Oldies but Goodies?!

== RSCDS Strategy Meeting – Change Statements ==

By Tom Halpenny
A set of 5 Strategic Aims had been adopted at the RSCDS Annual General Meeting
2015. The RSCDS Management Board, committees, and HQ staff attended the annual
training meeting of RSCDS Management Board and committees members in Edinburgh
on Saturday, January 9, 2016. Executive Officer Gillian Wilson facilitated a
discussion of the 5 Strategic Aims in order to develop the next level of
detail.

=== Strategy Map ===

Instead of discussing Activities (methods), participants were asked to write
priority Change statements (more specific goals) that describe how the Society
will look, after improvements have been implemented. A Business Plan Working
Group can then identify the prioritized Activities that will effectively
accomplish the Change statements. The timeframe calls for a business plan to be
developed and presented to members for the November RSCDS AGM 2016.

The Change statements are determined by identifying problems: What stops us
from achieving this aim? We then turn the problems into positive suggested
priority Change statements.
    
For example, likely problems identified, related to Aim number 1 are:

 1. RSCDS general image is “have to dance properly” / unfriendly / unrelaxed / “old fashioned”.  Branches often have the same image / some branches are unwelcoming.
 2.       Ceilidh dancing is seen as fun and exciting but RSCDS is not associated with this / we just focus on SCD and not other types of related dance.
 3.       Public in non-Scottish contexts does not know what Scottish Country Dance is / there are other local country dance traditions.
 4.       Insufficient linking and partnership with other dance forms and dance organizations.
 5.       RSCDS communications to members and branches are often Scottish / UK focused and something that works in Scotland does not necessarily work elsewhere / internationally.

What do we want to change to? Suggested priority Change statements are: 

 1. The RSCDS portrays itself as a fun, sociable, healthy, inclusive and family friendly organization, in collaboration with its branches.
 2. RSCDS is recognised as a leading organization for Scottish dance and music in Scotland and internationally.
 3. The RSCDS is involved with ceilidh and other related dance forms.  
 4. The general public is aware of the different forms of Scottish dance.
 5. RSCDS works effectively with relevant dance, music and arts organizations in Scotland and internationally.
 6. RSCDS is an internationally relevant and accessible organization.
    
Next comes the challenging part. A Business Plan Working Group will soon begin
to gather input from Society stakeholders and will identify workplan options.
We will ideally reach a balance of collaboration and networking amongst the
small Headquarters staff and the volunteer committees, branches, and affiliated
groups, with international and intergenerational perspective.

== The Beginner’s Reeling! ==
by Linda Kelso

A little history from June of 1998. ~ The Editor

Sometime in the spring of 1985 (or was it ’86?). Never mind, when is not too
important. I was living in Birmingham, Alabama and had gone to Atlanta to
attend a Neil Diamond concert with my friend, Jane McLendon. It was great. I
was ready to go again the next night, but Jane already had other plans. She was
going to a Scottish Country Dancing event. Scottish Country Dancing, what’s
that, I wondered. I’d never heard of it.

I don’t remember much about it except that there was a nice crowd of people
there, all friendly, with the women in pretty dresses and the men in kilts. I’d
guess this may have been the first time I ever saw kilts. It was definitely the
first time I’d seen dancing like this. It looked like a disorganized melee, and
the music all sounded alike. I couldn’t quite imagine why at that point, but
everyone seemed to be having a lot of fun.

While I lived in Alabama, I tried to do as many things with Jane as possible.
That mostly meant tagging along on various trips to dancing events. I remember
going to things in Atlanta, to something in Kentucky and something else in
Nashville, the only time I ever got there. Jane tried hard to teach me some
steps, and occasionally persuaded me to participate in an easy dance. (Easy!
There is no such thing!!) My feet wouldn’t cooperate. I’ll stick to taking
pictures of other people dancing.

=== Sometimes It Takes A While ===

Fast forward to September ’95. I’m now living in Longview. Jane, and some
others from the Atlanta group flew to Seattle to attend the Seattle’s group’s
event at Fort Worden. I joined them for a day, again watching and taking lots
of pictures. At Fort Worden I met Ken McFarland, and Jane explained that Ken
had been organizing various trips for dancers. She said sometimes non-dancers
could go. Which led me to going along on the cruise to Alaska last summer.
Well, if I was going to hang around with these dancing folk, maybe I should
learn something about it. Robert McOwen’s ladies’ step dancing classes helped
me start making just a bit of sense of it. To my amazement, last fall I
discovered there are two classes a month in the Longview/Kelso area. Thinking
about going along on another Ken McFarland trip, I began my dance career.

Classes: Sally Bledsoe teaches the class. She is very ably though informally
assisted by Fred and Marge van Nus, who drive some 80 miles round trip to help
out. There are four or five other (fairly) regulars and a changing cast of
beginners like me.

There are some basic things about Scottish dancing that are NOT immediately
obvious. Like progression down the set. Having walked the dance a few times,
once we started, I thought once I got through it once, we were now the second
couple or third or whatever. I was totally lost for the rest of the dance. I am
still trying to figure out which couple I’m part of, and if my partner can’t
keep track of it, oh well, our dance is a mess!!

Corners: By now, most of the time I can remember which is my first and second,
but that took some doing. Reels, right or left shoulder. Just keep winding in
and out of the other people till the music says stop.

Poussette: My partner had better be able to push me through it, or I’m lost.

The Steps: I can manage the strathspey when the group is following Sally around
the floor, but in a dance my mind can deal with only one thing: trying to be
where I’m supposed to be at the end of the figure. Forget the steps!!

On your toes! Fred must remind me a dozen times during class. As I got better
at it, my legs got better at protesting. Twice after class I was up an hour
after bedtime, walking around my apartment trying to work out the cramps.

HAVE YOU LEARNED ANYTHING? With perhaps 10 to 12 classes and one dance behind
me I set off for Hawaii with Ken McFarland’s group, looking forward to the week
of dancing. Well, with a stellar dance master like John Drewry leading the
classes as they learned new, intricate and beautiful dances, it was back to the
camera. But all was not lost. At least I knew what he was talking about!

There has been one glorious moment so far. It happened at the dance in
Vancouver in February. I knew what I was supposed to do, and so did everyone
else in the set. We completed the dance as though we knew what we were doing
and most of them did(!). It was a thrill. I told Jane I finally figured out why
so many people enjoy Scottish Country Dancing. Someday I think I will, too.

== Tidbits from Old Tomes ==

by John Shaw
I recently received a copy of Ken McFarland’s newsletter wherein he describes
many items of interest from his recent travels to Scotland. Ken spent some time
at the National Library of Scotland in Edinburgh, researching country dances
and dancing, and he describes some of his findings in his newsletter.

Ken also mentions a Library of Congress web site called “An American Ballroom
Companion, Dance Instruction
Manuals”. http://memory.loc.gov/ammem/musdiquery.html#full

That web page gives you a text box for entering a word (or words) for which to
search. I entered “Scottish”, of course, and it presented me with a list of
about 70 books containing something about Scottish dance. The publication dates
on these books ranged from the 1700’s to the early 1900’s.

The two excerpts below are from a book by Elias Howe, first published in 1862,
titled American Dancing Master, And Ball-Room Prompter. (Actually, the full
title fills most of the title page, as you can see on the next page.)

This first excerpt is Howe’s description of Country Dance; I noticed among his
list of “most fashionable” dances two that I recognized: Money Musk and The
Sailor’s Hornpipe:

=== Country Dances, or Contra Dances ===

The term “Country Dance” is the one invariably used in all books on dancing
that have been published in England during the last three centuries, while all
the works issued in France within the same period, employ the term Contra
Dance, or in French, “ Contre Danse,” from being placed on contra sides. As the
authority is equally good in both cases, either term is therefore correct…

Fifty years ago or more, the Country Dance was the only one danced in this
country, except in the cities and large towns, where several fancy dances were
occasionally performed; but even in those places the Country Dance reigned
triumphant.

American Dancing Master

The dances that were at that time the most fashionable were: “ Fisher’s
Hornpipe,” “Chorus Jig,” “Sir Roger de Coverley,” “The Cushion Dance,” “Money
Musk,” “Speed the Plough,” “The Devil’s Dream,” “College Hornpipe,” “Rustic
Reel,” “Six Handed Reel,” “Reel fore and after a straight four,” “Durang’s
Hornpipe,” “The Sailor’s Hornpipe ,” & c.

This next excerpt is Howe’s explanation of the dance, Money Musk; can you
follow it?

=== MONEY MUSK ===

First couple join right hands and swing once and a half round, go below 2d
couple, (the 1st lady goes below 2d gent. on the outside, 1st. gent. at the
same time goes below and between 2d and 3d ladies), forward and back six, 1st
couple swing three quarters round, 1st gent. goes between 2d couple (on the
inside), first lady goes between 3d couple inside, forward and back six, 1st
couple swing three quarters round to place (below one couple), right and left
four.

I think descriptions of Scottish Country Dances have come a long way!

To the right is an image of the title page of Elias Howe’s book. Notice the
line near the hand-written date, “DEPORTMENT AND THE TOILET”. I determined,
from this book and a couple of others, that “Toilet” refers to the proper dress
for the occasion.

Yeah, me neither.

== Oldies But Goodies Class ==
by Lisa Scott

Come join the fun for a low key 90 minutes of SCD. Tempos are a bit calmer,
some formations are modified, and dancers are encouraged to make the dancing
work for their physical ability. We have done dances from the RSCDS books 1 and
2 and will be heading on to dances in books 3 and 4 through March. The class
starts at 7:30 on the 2nd and 4th Tuesdays each month and is held at Columbia
Dance Studio in Vancouver, WA. For more info please call Lisa Scott at
971-227-8902.

== Great Scot ==
by Keith Swingruber

A reminder that it took Scottish know-how to make it possible for us to wheel
our way to classes and dances. ~ The Editor

=== John Loudon McAdam, 1756-1836 ===

After a stint in New York City during the American Revolution, McAdam returned
to Scotland in 1783 with a small fortune. He bought an estate in Ayrshire and
became the district’s road trustee.

After observing the poor road conditions, McAdam started experimenting with
improvements at his own expense. These experiments were continued in Cornwall,
where he built raised road beds of cheap, local rock. The beds were then
covered with smaller rock, and bound together with gravel, stone dust, and
water.

McAdam wrote treatises on road construction, and was eventually appointed
Surveyor General of Metropolitan Roads in Great Britian. His “macadamization”
process quickly spread to other countries, paving the way for the modern
highway.

=== John Boyd Dunlop, 1840-1921 ===

Dunlop was born in Ayrshire, and trained as a veterinary surgeon in Belfast,
Ireland. He conceived the idea for an air filled tire while trying to reduce
bicycle vibration. In 1845, a patent had been granted to Robert William
Thomson, but no practical uses were found for the invention.

In 1888, Dunlop was granted a patent for an all-rubber inner tube, protected by
a rubber-treaded canvas jacket. Commercial production of his tires began in
1890, and Dunlop’s company was subsequently granted patents leading to the
modern wheel and tire.

== Like Ripples on a Pond ==
by Van Meter Hord

Another wee story reminding us of the ways Scotlands sons and daughters make
our lives so much better. ~ The Editor

His name was Fleming, and he was a poor Scottish farmer. One day, while trying
to eke out a living for his family, he heard a cry for help coming from a
nearby bog. He dropped his tools and ran to the bog.

There, mired to his waist in black muck, was a terrified boy, screaming and
struggling to free himself. Farmer Fleming saved the lad from what could have
been a slow and terrifying death.

The next day, a fancy carriage pulled up to the Scotsman’s sparse surroundings.
An elegantly dressed nobleman stepped out and introduced himself as the father
of the boy Farmer Fleming had saved. “I want to repay you,” said the nobleman.
“You saved my son’s life.”

“No, I can’t accept payment for what I did,” the Scottish farmer replied,
waving off the offer. At that moment, the farmer’s own son came to the door of
the family hovel.

“Is that your son?” the nobleman asked. “Yes,” the farmer replied proudly.

“I’ll make you a deal. Let me take him and give him a good education. If the
lad is anything like his father, he’ll grow to a man you can be proud of.”

And that he did. In time, Farmer Fleming’s son graduated from St. Mary’s
Hospital Medical School in London, and went on to become known throughout the
world as the noted Sir Alexander Fleming, the discoverer of Penicillin.

Years afterward, the nobleman’s son was stricken with pneumonia. What saved
him? Penicillin.

The name of the nobleman? Lord Randolph Churchill. His son’s name? Sir Winston
Churchill.

Someone once said what goes around comes around. When you help someone else you
are bringing joy into your life also.

== Scottish Country Dance in Scotland ==
by Tom Halpenny

I attended my first Scottish dance in Scotland 9th January 2016, the formal
Trinity SCD Club 63rd Annual Banquet and Ball. I was particularly keen to meet
new friends and observe how people socially interact. Dance event organizers
Colin and Joan Tyler were very friendly and welcoming. The format is similar to
the Southwest Washington State Branch Dinner Dance. Guests were assigned seats
for the 7:30 banquet with thirteen tables of ten guests each. I had pleasant
conversations with fellow diners at my table. The dance programme began at 9:00
after the tables were cleared from the floor.

Alastair Wood and his Scottish Dance Band provided the energetic music with two
accordions and keyboard. In a departure from prior years, the dances were
briefed this year. (Dancers must have been pretty familiar with the programme
during earlier years!) I enjoyed dancing with some of about ten RSCDS
management committee members, whom I had met in the Away Day strategy meeting
earlier in the day. I pulled out my sheet of Minicribs to refresh my memory of
the next dance, while Keith Rose, who is famous for generating thousands of
Pilling style dance diagrams, read his sheet of ball programme diagrams.

=== The Trinity Ball Programme ===

After the final dance concluded, the band struck up a polka. The partner I had
danced with took ball room hold and said, “Let’s go!” Dozens of dancers began
racing around the dance floor in random directions with the polka step. I was a
little nervous as we narrowly avoided a collision a couple times. Woohoo! ~ The
Editor

Since the bus stopped running before midnight and it had been raining pretty
steadily, the event hosts Joan and Colin were kind enough to drive me past my
hotel, while delivering my polka-partner to the airport for an early flight.
After a busy day of meeting and dancing, I slept well until a leg cramp hit me
at 3:00am. I got back to sleep but jet lag returned and I ended up sleeping the
day away. I emerged from my windowless room around 5:00pm and strolled into the
evening for a final walk through Edinburgh streets before flying home the next
morning.

“All the ills of mankind, all the tragic misfortunes that fill our history
books, all the political blunders, all the failures of the great leaders have
arisen merely from a lack of skill in dancing.” Moliere (1622-1673)

== SW Washington Dinner Dance Program ==
%CRIB_dinner_dance_2016%

== Solicitation of Articles ==
 
Do you have an item of Celtic interest you would like to see in print?
 
You can contact me by email:  mlsherfey@comcast.net
