{{{#!html
<img class="artwork" src="../images/gg_mar_2015_3.jpg" alt="Spring Fling Trial Dancing" width="640" height="428"/>
<div class="tagline">Spring Fling Trial Dancing in Vancouver, Wash.</div>
}}}
{{{#!wiki comment
pubdate = January/February 2015
}}}

<<TableOfContents()>>

== President’s Corner ==
by Martin Mac​Kenzie

Happy New Year! 

We look forward to dancing starting again Monday, January 4, 2016 so that we
can try to strip off the effects of “The Most Caloric Time of The Year.” Coming
up, in addition to classes and second Saturday dances in Portland, we have
events outside of our area. Don’t forget our very own Portland Workshop and
Ball which is coming up March 12th. There will be more publicity for that as
time progresses. If you navigate to http://www.rscds-swws.org/events.html, the
details of events outside Portland are recorded there. For those who want to
have an international experience in SCD without leaving the North American
continent, TAC Summer School is coming up in Bishop’s University, Sherbrooke,
Quebec, Canada. The details for that are here:
http://www.tac-rscds.org/summer-school. Eunice and I had a wonderful experience
with these folks in Farmville, VA at the University of Longwood last summer.
They were extra ordinarily nice and helpful to us. If you want to read Eunice’s
article about that event, please navigate to navigate to
http://www.rscds-swws.org/news/201509/vol32-2.htm. To view this, the username
is guest772 and the password is belfast.

Though our AGM (Annual General Meeting) is a ways off (May 2016), please think
ahead and consider volunteering to run for office as at least myself and others
will be time limited out. For myself, I thank the officers for their hard,
skillful, and focused work making it possible for all of us to skip the
“Scottish” light fantastic on the dance floor. I’m also profoundly thankful for
Lisa Scott whose contact with the Portland Country Dance Community made
possible the new venue which we’re enjoyed this (past) year.

I look forward dancing with all y’all this coming 2016!

==  Burns Dance January 16, 2016, Eugene ==
by Robert and Leone Burger and Kalindi Devi-Dasi

The Eugene Scottish Country Dancers will be holding our annual Robert Burns
Night Dance on Saturday, January 16, 2016. The location is the Santa Clara
Grange on 295 Azalea Drive, Eugene, OR 97404 (same as last year). The event
will begin at 7p.m. We will also be hosting a workshop that same afternoon
(3-5pm) to walk through as many dances as possible. The afternoon walk through
is free. 

=== Payment Options ===
Mail check payable to Kalindi Devi-Dasi (2873 Quiet Lane, Eugene, OR 97404) 
Send email that you will pay at the door: casaelya@gmail.com 
Registration (by check or email notification) after 12/31/15 is $25 per person 

When registering, please indicate if you will be attending the pre-dance
workshop from 3-5 pm For more information, call Robert or Leone: 541 935 6051  

== RSCDS Strategy ==
by Tom Halpenny

RSCDS Headquarters is evaluating its strategy for the coming three years.  The
continuing decline in membership and rising costs to provide services have
stimulated the need to widen the options and evaluate priorities.  The
discussion is based on five strategic objectives in order to accomplish the
RSCDS Mission: To grow a vibrant worldwide community of Scottish Dance and
Music.

 1. To promote Scottish Country Dance and related dance forms as inclusive and exciting activities
 2. To build the number, capacity and networking of branches and other dance groups who share our objectives, to help them grow and deliver SCD activity
 3. To maintain and develop high standards of teaching of Scottish Country Dance and music, including the development of the dance and music repertoire for all ages and abilities
 4. To enable enjoyable and high quality Scottish Country Dance opportunities for all ages and abilities worldwide
 5. Strengthen and improve the RSCDS, including its governance and long term financial viability, to enable it to deliver on the above objectives

The AGM 2015 Open Forum group of 80 members evaluated the strategic objectives
and provided input.  We can read a summary of the results.  The report lists
what has been good / works well and what needs doing better / more, for each
objective.

https://www.rscds.org/document/1143

The RSCDS Management Board and Committees will use this valuable feedback from
the Open Forum to help shape their next step in developing a Strategic Business
Plan for the next 3 years.  The Management Board, Committees and staff of RSCDS
will be meeting on 9 January 2016 to put more flesh on to the 5 Strategic
Objectives which will set the framework for producing a more detailed plan of
action for the next three years. HQ welcomes your comments and feedback both
through the Branch Secretaries Facebook Group and through email before then.
For example, branches might want to weigh in on high priority factors, or
identify factors missing from the Open Forum notes. 

I perused past Scottish Country Dancer magazine editions and found articles in
the 2009 issues 8 and 9, related to the previous strategic plan, that might
stimulate ideas for the current effort. We are considering many of the same
issues that were discussed six years ago. What progress has been made? We can
continue with methods that were successful, while less-successful methods might
suggest considering new options for improvement.

http://www.rscds-swws.org/news/stories/SCD-Magazine-2009-Articles.pdf

== Asilomar 2015 – Sunshine in November ==
by Holly Gibson

Last year three dancers from the Portland/SW Washington branches made the trek
south to the Asilomar Conference Center located on the tip of the Monterey
Peninsula in Pacific Grove, California for the San Francisco Branch’s annual
workshop and ball. We had so much fun we decided we had to go back, and so
Linda Mae Dennis, Darrick Wong, and I found ourselves once again flying to San
Jose and being chauffeured to the venue by fellow dancer Geoffrey Wood. 

Compared to last year, traffic to Monterey was nonexistent. We arrived around
sunset, checked in (a process in itself), and spent time catching up with
friends, getting ready for dancing, and preparing for soon-to-be-tired feet.
After a quick walk along the boardwalk and dinner, we headed to the welcome
dance. This year’s event was a sell out and finding any part of the floor in
Merrill Hall that wasn’t occupied by a pair of ghillies was a challenge. With
music by Andy Imbrie and Judi Nicholson, it was also a challenge to find anyone
sitting out. After the dance, which seemed to be over in 10 minutes, there was
a ceilidh with several original dances, musical performances, and a rousing
version of what Scottish Country Dancing must have looked like in the 1970s,
complete with polyester, tie-dyed t-shirts, and Dancing Queen by ABBA.

Saturday morning dawned bright and sunny (and cold). The teachers this year
were Jimmie Hill, Elaine Brunken, Jeff Corrigan, Allan Twhigg, and Ruth Jappy,
hailing from Scotland, Missouri (by way of Scotland), California, and Canada.
Dancers also came from various parts of the globe with France, England, Canada,
and Denmark being represented. For the morning classes, dancers were divided by
their activity preferences (as in barely moving or barely contained). The first
class was quicktime and then strathspey. After lunch there were several
electives to choose from. I’m sure they were terrific, some of us sort of
played hooky.

Linda Mae and I walked to Cannery Row, investigated a sock shop (although the
chocolate shop next door proved more interesting), took note of a Labradoodle
wearing sunglasses, and then walked back along the shoreline to the conference
center. After a break and a review of the dances, we were ready for the ball.
Unfortunately, we were a little off on the time the grand march started and
arrived just as the pipes started playing. The hall was packed with people
eager to dance to the music of Fiddlesticks & Ivory and, with 18 dances on the
program, there was ample opportunity. One of the largest musical surprises was
the last dance, the Reel of the 51st Division, with a local piper accompanying
the band, putting a large exclamation point on the end of the evening. 

Being too excited after all the dancing to go to sleep, we went in search of
the musicians’ after party. Unfortunately, it didn’t get started until about
1:00 a.m., 30 minutes after we left. The weather was still clear at that time
but for once the forecast was accurate and the rain started early in the
morning. While walking back from the beach, in an effort to see if there was
any semblance of a sunrise, I noticed folks with umbrellas and thought it
seemed out of place, until I realized I wasn’t in Oregon anymore where everyone
owns a raincoat. 

The morning dance class started around 9:30 and the floor was just as crowded
as the night before (although there were more pairs of Nikes than ghillies by
this time). Each teacher taught a dance, with the last one being Pulling
Bracken, which has a reel across the dance with first couple in allemande hold
into a grand chain, not the easiest thing to do when everyone’s brain is
running on a few hours’ sleep.

After checking out, lunch, and goodbyes, Geoffrey, Linda Mae, Darrick, and I
headed to Point Lobos State Park. The wind had blown away the rain, leaving
stormy skies with flashes of blue in its wake and gigantic crashing waves.
Point Lobos was amazing and I’m surprised we walked as far as we did since it
was so tempting to stop every few steps and just gape. Fortunately, our plane
didn’t leave until late evening so there was plenty of time for that. We had
dinner (and met Darrick’s dad) in Sunnyvale, and then Geoffrey dropped Linda
Mae and I at the airport while Darrick returned with his dad. A few quick hours
later it was back to real life, and rain. Next year, Asilomar will be in late
October so there’s plenty of time for everyone to start planning a trip to the
California coast.

== Antonya and Brian’s Party ==
by Stephen Hui

We were treated to attend Antonya and Brian’s party at their quaint and cozy
home in NE Portland.  We saw a lot of friends, neighbors, and a few Portland
RSCDS dance class members – enough to make a four-couple dance set.  It was a
festive evening with delicious food and by 7:30 the whole house was filled with
conversations and the sweet aroma of food.

Cynthia and Nathaniel provided the music with selections from Alasdair Fraser
and Natalie’s Fire and Grace album and Hanneke Cassel’s mesmerizing melodies.
The music drew a few people to the living room which was beautifully decorated
and warmed by the cracking flame of the fireplace.  At the request of Antonya,
the dancers obliged to perform a reel “Black Donald” and a strathspey “Neidpath
Castle”.  The reel was performed at the entry way which, even though a tight
space, the dancers were able to negotiate the turns and allemande fine.
Graceful rendition of the strathspey was done in the living room and show-cased
the beautiful diamond poussette.  It was a delightful evening for all who
attended.

== January 9, 2016 Dance Program ==
%CRIB_portland_jan2016%

== February 13, 2015 Dance Program ==
%CRIB_portland_feb2016%
