{{{#!wiki comment
pubdate = August/July 2017
}}}

== Teacher’s Corner ==
by Mel Whitson

'''A'''s Scottish Country Dancers, there will be instances where we will
be required to dance after only hearing a briefing of the instructions.
This occurs at dance events, of course, but it also happens in classes.
Sometimes when a dance is being taught, we may have the opportunity to
have walked or practiced just a portion of the dance.  Or perhaps we
only had the chance to practice the role of the second or third couple
but not of the first couple.  Or maybe we were able to practice the
entire dance as first couple but haven’t a clue what to do as the third
couple!

When learning a dance, I think everyone (myself included) feels more
comfortable with the safety net of having had the opportunity to walk or
practice the dance before it is finally danced through all its “times
through” by the entire set.  However, in a class teachers generally
prefer not to walk/practice each dancer through every position.  Doing
so results in a very slow paced class that many dancers find boring.

Consequently, it is helpful for dancers to develop their memory
placement and retrieval skills as well as the ability to absorb
information “by ear.”  It is known that people have various ways of
learning and of placing memories in their brains so dancing from a
briefing is easier for some dancers than for others.  That said,
everyone should be able to improve their abilities through practice.
And of course, some dances are just easier to remember because they have
fewer movements occurring simultaneously and/or have fewer bits (dances
with all eight bar figures can be easier to recall than those with lots
of two bar and four bar parts).

Below are some tips that I hope you may find beneficial in the quest to
successfully dance from verbal instructions.

In General:
 *Listen with engagement and don’t let yourself get distracted. 
 *Think positively and make memorizing the dance a goal!  When we have a goal, we tend to remember the steps to achieve it.
 *Close your eyes and envision the figures in your mind’s eye. Envision the entire figure, not just first couple’s part. For example, for reels of three, picture a figure of eight with three dots simultaneously moving along the track.
 *Immediately repeat the words you heard, or a summary that is meaningful to you, out loud (softly) – this is very powerful in implanting it in your short term memory.
 *In your head, organize the dance into four or five chunks, such as “1. Set/cast/turn, 2. Diagonal half Reels of Four, 3. Reels of Three on the sides, 4. Circle.”  Remembering fewer things is easier.
 *Associate the figure names with the shape of the movements or with another memory cue that works for you such as a story. For example, you might think of Double Triangles as being two triangles or as of the shape of the St. Andrew’s Cross. If the dance has Lead Down the Middle and Up, ending ready for Double Triangles, perhaps you could think of it as taking a trip where you end up at St. Andrews.
 *If you learn best by physical movement, try making small hand/arm/feet movements during the briefing, for example -
  *draw a Figure of Eight with your hand and arm;
  *let your fingers do the walking to symbolize Lead Down the Middle and Up;
  *for Rights and Lefts, lift your right hand, then left hand, then right hand, then left hand;
  *make circling motions with your right hand to signify a right hand turn;
  *tap your right shoulder as a prompt for which shoulder to give in a Reel of Three;
  *move your feet and body slightly to represent the figures; for example, for Set and Cast, do a small setting movement with your feet and then dip your right shoulder back slightly.
 *When the dance is over, immediately recite the figures to yourself to help implant them in your long term memory.
 *Make the effort to practice and develop your abilities to dance from verbal instruction; view it as another facet of Scottish Country Dancing to learn, just like the steps, phrasing, eye contact, figures, and etiquette.

Additionally for a Dance Event:
 *If you learn by watching, maneuver with your partner to be fourth couple (or ask your set if you can do so) to allow yourself to watch the dance once. Of course this doesn’t work for set dances that call for exactly three/four/five dancers.
 *If one couple will be walked through while the dance is being briefed, ask your set if you and your partner may be the first couple – don’t be shy or embarrassed!
 *Review the cheat sheets and/or diagrams ahead of the event.  Walk the dances out in your home, walking it as first couple and then as second couple and then third couple, etc. Alternatively, move small objects (salt and pepper shakers work well) around in the patterns of the dances.  You may find that a dance you thought to be intimidating actually isn’t so hard after all.
 *Watch Danciemaetions!

Additionally in a Class:
 *If the briefing was unclear or confusing or you just got distracted and missed something, ask the teacher to 
 repeat/clarify.  Don’t be shy – others likely have the same question.
 *If you feel you are really going to struggle without more practice, ask the teacher for more practice.
 *Pay attention to what is practiced in class exercises that precede the dance.  Teachers purposely use 
 exercises to enable dancers to be better prepared for the dance itself.  However, the practice is not 
 always going to be identical in every way to how it will be done in the dance – be flexible and try not 
 to learn only by rote.
 *Don’t be afraid of making mistakes; we all make mistakes and we will laugh along with you – not at you.

== RSCDS Musicians Interview ==
by Tom Halpenny

Musicians Scott Band and Bill Ewan were interviewed by BBC music radio
programme “Take the Floor” host Anna Massie April 29, 2017. The
musicians recorded the music for RSCDS Book 50 dances. We can listen to
the interview and learn how Scottish country dance music differs from
other dance music for ceilidh or old time dances.
http://www.rscds-swws.org/news/stories/BandEwanInterview.mp3
Note, this might take a bit of time to load depending upon the speed of
your Internet connection.

The current “Take the Floor” programme hosts are less aware of Scottish
country dance compared with the recently retired programme host and
RSCDS member Robbie Shepherd who was an enthusiasic promoter. We can
recall the 2015 newletter item when he interviewed retired RSCDS
Membership Secretary Elspeth Gray.
http://www.rscds-swws.org/news/201503/vol31-5.htm#art.7

== Linda Mae’s European Vacation, one of three ==
by Linda Mae Dennis

'''S'''o, we all met at PDX with no difficulty, and plenty of time to
wait around. Janice was kind enough to pick Patrick and me up at our
house and take us to the airport, and Kathlleen and Rebecca Mintz were
due to take up residence at our house for the duration, and my friend
Cheryl had offered to do any watering that needed to be done, so our
anxiety about leaving was at an all time low. There was a cool diorama
near the restrooms closest to our gate of jellyfish suspended in a glass
container – the cool thing was that they were made from fabric and
felted wool, including the urchins and rocks on the “sea floor”. The
flight, which left on time at 3:40pm was uneventful, but extremely long,
and in brilliant sunshine the whole way to Reykjavik, which made it very
difficult to sleep. Reykjavik itself was pretty fogged in. The landscape
around the airport is rather flat and bleak. We were heartened by seeing
familiar lupines blooming along the runways. The plane taxied seemingly
randomly around the airport like it was looking for a place to park, and
eventually stopped out in the middle of nowhere, so we had to take a bus
to the terminal. Once there, we did a pretty decent job of running
through our daily dance, Flights of Fancy, with just two couples. Some
of us got a little sleep on the next leg of our journey into Amsterdam,
but we were a pretty red-eyed, sorry looking lot by the time we managed
our train from the airport and our walk to Conscious Hotel Vondelpark.
It was about 3:30 on Wednesday by the time we got settled in. We took
naps, declaring that that was the end of Tuesday, and got up around
6:00pm on our Wednesday. This caused a bit of consternation over when to
take morning and evening pills, but apparently our bodies worked it out. 

We wandered into Amsterdam to find some dinner, and wound up at a Thai
place about two blocks from our hotel. After dinner we wandered through
the large Vondelpark, that was chock full of very fit Amsterdammers,
riding bikes, doing exercise classes, running, playing tennis, or just
generally being outside. Our mission was to find the Van Gogh museum so
we would know where to show up the next morning and how long it would
take us to get there. We wandered for several hours, trying to stay
awake until at least 10:30pm – Patrick’s foolproof jet lag adjustment
plan. We stopped at a bar for a Heineken – cold and delicious – could
have been that we were totally dehydrated, but in my estimation, it was
the best Heineken ever. I’m pretty sure we walked more than 5 miles just
sightseeing – very enjoyable. Eventually, Holly and Sally declared
themselves done, and went to bed. Patrick and I went to a nearby pub,
Raleigh and Raymonds, and had another lovely beverage before retiring.
Amsterdam is truly a city of bicycles. The middle of the street is for
cars, trains, and buses, the lanes outside those are for bicycles, and
the lanes outside those are for pedestrians, who should be careful not
to stray into the bike lanes without looking, even if there is a truck
parked in the pedestrian lane.

'''Thursday, June 15'''

Patrick and I got up early to hunt down some coffee. Not before the sun
came up, like Holly did, but before most of the coffee places were open.
Eventually we found one, enjoyed a small, decent cup, and very much
enjoyed our little wander in the cool morning air. We met up with Sally
and Holly at 9:00am to retrace our steps from the previous evening to
the Van Gogh museum, to arrive at 10:30, the time on our pre-paid
tickets. After spending a couple of exhausting hours slowly – ever so
slowly – shuffling past all the Van Gogh and friends paintings, we set
off in search of lunch. We passed through a park where they were
replanting a huge area with rolls of turf. I found this fascinating. We
found a lunch place that served breakfast and watched a street musician
play his stand up bass and sing while we enjoyed our omelets. Then we
walked and walked. Patrick wanted to see “The Old Church”, which is down
in the red light district. We saw several old churches, in fact, but it
took us a while to find the correct Old Church. We also saw a couple of
things that we can’t now unsee, which is unfortunate. We saw a lot of
people on bicycles, boats on the canals, and listened to many accents
and languages. After we saw The Old Church to our satisfaction, we
headed back to the Rembrandt Museum, which is housed the most beautiful
building! This museum was much less crowded that the Van Gogh, and the
pictures were much easier to see and appreciate. After another couple of
hours of art, we were glad to do something else. We had to tempt Sally
back to the hotel with the promise of ice cream. There was a certain
amount of grumbling about how we were promised only five miles a day and
we’ve surely done twice that in each of the last two days. Ice cream is
more difficult to track down in Amsterdam than one might think, though,
and we ended up finding small cups of Ben & Jerry’s in a seedy little
snack joint (very likely a money laundering operation) about a block
from our hotel. Over our ice cream, we agreed that we would certainly
lose Sally altogether if we didn’t eat down the copious amounts of food
she had brought with her. We sent Patrick and Holly back to the grocery
store for additional supplies (wine), while I helped Sally limp back to
the hotel. We had a lovely picnic in Holly and Sally’s room, which
included, but was not limited to, cheese, crackers, carrots, peanuts,
almonds, macadamia nuts, tilapia, grapes, apricots, edamame,
blueberries, olives, pea crisps, and large bars of chocolate. Obviously
we could not have Sally lugging all that across England and Scotland.
Once fed, rested, and showered, we got a second wind. Holly went with
her camera to explore nearby Rembrandt Park, and Sally, Patrick and I
moseyed down to Raleigh and Raymonds, now our favorite pub in Amsterdam
to socialize with the locals. We chatted for some time with Vanessa and
Rick over a lovely Heineken. We learned a lot about Amsterdam, including
where to find the best coffee and apple pie, and a few Dutch words,
which were impossible to come by without asking, because as soon as you
say “Hello”, the very accommodating locals switch seamlessly to English.
We chatted with the bar tender as well – his name was Pepe, but it
wasn’t his fault. His English was so good I thought he was from England.
Turns out he was born and raised in Amsterdam, but he was pleased that I
didn’t think so.

'''Friday, June 16'''

We met at 8:00am Friday morning to search out the ‘best coffee in
Amsterdam’. It was a bit more windy and therefore more chilly than
previous mornings, but having had perfect weather up to this point, we
really couldn’t complain. A brisk walk through streets filled with
bicycle commuters, plus a little wandering up and down because we either
didn’t understand the street numbering or didn’t have the right number
brought us to Lot Sixty-One. It was overflowing with people getting
coffee. Patrick and I had changed some money to Euros the day before,
and each got an Americano. We went outside to drink it, as there was no
room in the shop. Sally did not have Euros, and tried to purchase a
coffee with her credit card, which didn’t work, so she came out,
resigned to a morning with no coffee, when a random guy came out of the
shop and put a coffee into her hand. He had witnessed her disappointment
and bought her a coffee. Pretty nice! We agreed that it was the best
coffee we had had in Amsterdam, but it was not as good as or as large as
the coffee we’re used to.
We did not try to track down the best apple pie.

Back to the hotel to clean up, pack up, check out, and head for the bus.
We had to take two buses to get from Amsterdam to IJmuden (aye moy den).
I had spent a good twenty minutes the day before with the desk clerk at
the hotel, and had my little card with instructions on how to make the
bus transfer, etc. The bus drivers were very helpful, although they did
not speak much English, taking care that we got off at the correct
stops. When we eventually got to IJmuden, we wandered around the
charming but deserted town to see what we could find in the way of
lunch. We tried the Gastrobar, but it wasn’t open, so ended up at the
Bellevue Café. The food was excellent. Then we headed over to the ferry
terminal, where we were all pretty happy to sit still, out of the wind,
and drowse in the chairs for an hour or so until it was time to board.
Our ‘two berth outside rooms with en suite bath’ were very nice little
apartments. We did a little orientation exploration, then had an hour
for a proper lying down nap before the ferry actually got underway.

Patrick, Sally, and I went to a wildlife talk where we heard all about
all the dolphins we might see. We didn’t go out to the prow for the
watch, though, as it was quite cold and windy outside. We went to the
night club instead. We watched a preview of the night club act that was
due to happen  at 10:30pm, listened to some live music (not too bad),
had some lovely beverages, and played trivia night with our fellow
passengers. We did so well, fifteen correct out of twenty questions,
that we were good-naturedly accused of cheating by a raucous group of
young Dutchmen at a nearby table, but we didn’t win. Holly joined us,
and we went to find a quieter location. We found an almost deserted bar
which wasn’t open for drinking with a small dance floor. We tried to
adapt the dance A Trip to the Netherlands to a two couple set, but found
it quite impossible, and the disco music being piped in overhead wasn’t
helping. We wandered over to the “café” for a snack or whatever, enjoyed
looking out the big window at the ocean flowing past as we made forward
progress, and the gulls passing us on their way to somewhere. We all
headed to bed pretty early – a nice restful day in preparation for
what’s next.

'''Saturday, June 17'''

There isn’t much dark at this latitude at this time of year. I was
pretty much asleep when my head hit the pillow, but I was awake again
every couple of hours, thinking it was morning. I really enjoyed being
out on a big ship on the big ocean, seeing just the water and the sky
from my perch on the top bunk. Morning did arrive eventually – clear,
chilly, and windy – and Patrick and I moseyed down to the “café” again,
hunting for coffee. We ran into Sally on a similar mission. That was the
best coffee we had had on that ferry so far – what I mean to say is that
even though they printed “quality” on the cup, it didn’t necessarily
reflect what was inside.

While we were enjoying – well, drinking – our coffee, Holly was
apparently putting in 4 miles running back and forth on deck. Following
the coffee, there was a good deal of wandering around on deck for all.
It was very exciting to enter the mouth of the Tyne, and lots to look at
once we were making our way up the river. We made landfall, got through
customs, and took a cab (with 4 of us it was cheaper to take a cab than
to buy 4 bus tickets) directly to our first sight-seeing opportunity in
Newcastle Upon Tyne, the Millennium Bridge. It is a very cool pedestrian
bridge with an arched counterweight, so that it can be raised for river
traffic. We walked across and back, found out that there was a “tilt”
scheduled for noon, so settled in for brunch at a nearby restaurant to
wait. The food was excellent! After watching the “tilt”, we walked back
across the bridge and walked along the south shore to the historic Swing
Bridge, which we crossed back to the north shore, and that brought us
almost directly to the castle steps. There is a very cool castle in
Newcastle, and we arrived on a Free Day! Climbing up the steps to the
castle on a rather warm day was quite arduous. There were a LOT of
steps, and we were still carrying our packs. It was certainly worth the
effort though, as there were entertainers in costume, vendors, and a
fun, festival atmosphere among the stone steps, multiple alcoves, and
hideaways. There was a musician playing a hurdy-gurdy, which, when I
asked he was very happy to show me how it all worked – very cool. 

Once we had sufficiently explored the castle, we decided we had tortured
70-pound-pack-Sally enough, good thing we had eaten most of her food,
and went to look for our hotel. It turned out to be at the top of a long
hill, and there was a LOT of additional grumbling about the miles we
were putting in. Eventually we found it – the Grainger Hotel – in a
fairly dirty part of town, got checked in, and rested for a few minutes.
It was further from the city center than anticipated. We walked back
into town without packs, as we had errands. We needed local money, a sim
card for our local hotspot, and some decongestant. All that being
accomplished – took about an hour or so – and we went to hunt down an
acceptable pub. Sally pointed out a nearby pub. There was a large
bouncer at the door, the hallway was painted flat black, and the stairs
took us down to a lightless pit that smelled a good deal like bleached
vomit. We decided this was an example of an unacceptable pub. We
searched out an acceptable pub, The Charles Grey. We had a lovely snack
and a restorative beverage amongst various groups of “mates”. 

Upon leaving the pub, Sally wanted to go back to the hotel – by bus. No
other options were acceptable. We had to walk down a longish hill to get
her to a bus that we knew would go back to the hotel. Then Holly,
Patrick, and I walked back up through town to a large park for a wee
wander through nature before heading back. I’m afraid our impressions of
Newcastle were not completely favorable. It was pretty dirty, not so
charming, loud, not friendly, and the dearth of good pubs was fairly
sad. After a nice shower to wash off the accumulated layer of scum,
though, and a good night’s sleep, all was better again.

'''Sunday, June 18'''

We met to head for the train station at 8:00am. We all seemed to be
pretty good at getting up and getting going. The walk down the hill in
the cool morning air was quite nice. Sally is fine with down. Newcastle
Central Station is quite spacious. We found a ticket kiosk and got
tickets for the 9:10 train to Bardon Mill, which left us time for a wee
coffee or juice. The train ride itself was uneventful, but it was great
to finally be out in the English countryside. We were the only four
people to get off at Bardon Mill – a tiny station in the middle of
nowhere – completely silent once the train had pulled away. There were
no signs, but only one road into town, and eventually we found the
footpath with a sign pointing to Vindolanda – this is a very large ruin
of a Roman Fort, with a museum of artifacts. It was a two-mile hike
through very pleasant forests and fields with a great overlook of the
site. There was some grumbling about climbing up, only to have to climb
down, but most of us were getting immune to such things by then.

We spent about an hour and a half individually soaking up as much
information about Roman Centurions and Cavalry, along with everything
that went with an encampment of that size. Apparently, wives and
children encamped along with their soldier husbands. There was an
amazing display of leather shoes that had been preserved in layers of
mud – very ghillie-esque. Also preserved in the mud were letters on
tablets – thrilling to the archaeologists, as so much of the history is
so well preserved. We got back together at the little café for lunch. I
had a gigantic baked potato, overflowing with tuna salad and a side
salad. All the food looked amazing for a museum café. We ate outdoors on
the patio surrounded by charming little beggar birds, some so bold as to
join us on the table!


== NAMES OF CERTAIN RSCDS DANCES – bits of trivia and background ==
by Mel Whitson

based on the writings of George S. Emmerson in his book ''Scotland Through Her Country Dances''

Many of the older dances that were collected and published by the Society bear intriguing or mysterious names – at least when viewed through the lens of a present day North American dancer.  Here are insights into a few dance names.
 *How about a dance named after an artificial fishing fly?  That would be “The Duran Ranger.”  The title appears to be a corruption of Durham Ranger; the latter was the name of a fly that was used by salmon fishermen and was developed by one James Wright around 1865 for the use of a group of anglers from Durham.
 *This one sounds like it’s about an animal, but….  “The Crookit Horned Ewie” is another name for a whiskey still!
 *And speaking of sheep, is “Lamb Skinnet” about farming or at least about lambs?  Probably not.  It appears to be the name of a card game of German origin circa the 1680’s.
 *“Corn Rigs” and “The Lea Rig” – no , these are not references to a type of conveyance.  The word “rig” is thought to refer to the run-rig system of farming in which fields were divided among a number of joint tenants in the form of strips or “rigs.” And just to make it a little more confusing, the word “corn” is used as a generic term for grains, and in particular, for oats. The Scots did not grow corn (a North American native plant). ''From Edward Dwelly’s quintessential Gàidhlig - English dictionary, “roinn-ruithe	sf Run-rig, division or common run. This system of occupying land is often spoken of as mór-earrann, (great division) or mór-fhearann, (great land). It prevailed, of old, all over the British Islands and the continent of Europe and was common in Ireland. It is now extinct in England and obsolete in Scotland except in parts of the Western Isles.” Edward Dwelly is revered to this day in the Gàidhealtachd and was quite the piper. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_Dwelly ~ The Editor''
 *“Cadgers in the Canongate” sounds like it could be referring to pick pockets on the streets of Edinburgh.  However, a cadger was a hired carrier of goods.  Canongate is an historic street in Edinburgh (“gate” comes from the German word for road or way).
 *So “Jenny Dang the Weaver.”  Say what?  Is this some old Scottish sexual innuendo?  Of course not! (This dance was published by the RSCDS after all). No, “dang” means to strike or to get the better of (the back story on Jenny might be interesting to learn more about….)
 *Then there’s “Jenny’s Bawbee” about which one might speculate is a reference to jewelry.  Well, a bawbee can be shiny, at least in the way that a new penny is shiny, because a bawbee was a unit of money. For context and a laugh, here are relative values of old Scottish coins:
{{{
Dyot = 1 penny
Boddle = 2 penny
Groat or Plack = 4 penny
Bawbee = 6 penny
Shilling = 12 penny
Merk = 13 shillings and 4 Dyot
Pound = 20 shillings
}}}
 *And here’s one of my favorites: “The Rock and the Wee Pickle Tow.”  It turns out that a “rock” is a spinning wheel and a “wee pickle” is a small piece of “tow,’ the latter being flax that has been prepared for weaving.  Spinners used to take their rocks to communal gatherings/neighboring cottages to spin and socialize concurrently. Long after home spinning ceased, a Scot may have been heard to tell a neighbor that they were planning to come round with their rock – which simply meant they were coming over for a social visit.
 *“Knit the Pocky” – if you are thinking knitting, at last you are on the right track!  A “pocky” is a glove (presumably knitted) without the fingertips.

== Growth Mindset and Identity ==
by Tom Halpenny

'''W'''hy is it that over 95 percent of the public do no dancing of any
kind? If we could learn the reasons and adapt marketing in order to
address the mental blocks, then we could improve recruiting and
retaining new Scottish dancers.

We observe that each folk dance form is practiced by a small fraction of
one percent of the population. Yet each dance form has passionate social
groups of dancers who enjoy the physical and mental health benefits that
much of the public would like but most lack the curiosity to explore. I
have been learning about Fixed versus Growth Mindsets, and also the
Identity model, in order to improve my understanding of motivation for
learning dancing and joining a social group.

People often make statements like, “I’m no good at dancing,” or, “I
tried dancing and I am a klutz.” I have had the opportunity to meet
around 300 people who tried square dance lessons over the past three
years. Seventy percent learn about the lessons from friends and family.
I am fascinated to observe fresh brains gradually learn the dance
skills. New dancers are frequently nervous about trying square dance,
evidenced by clammy palms or clinging grip while dancing. I scan the
hall during lesson breaks for anyone who is not engaged in conversation,
and I walk over to talk with them. I gesture around the hall and say
that they are going to meet all these friendly people, and we will learn
some square dancing as a bonus. This relaxes new dancers and helps them
enjoy the lessons.

{{{#!html
<img src="../images/gg_july_2017_8.jpg" alt="Two Mindsets" width="334" height="500" style="float: right; margin-right: 1em;"/></img>
}}}

According to Stanford Professor of Psychology Carol Dweck, “Having a
fixed mindset led you to be afraid of challenges that might unmask your
deficiencies, made you withdraw in the face of difficulty because you
felt stupid. You didn’t want to feel stupid. You didn’t want other
people to think you’re stupid. Whereas having this growth mindset, the
idea that your abilities could be developed, made you think, why waste
my time looking smart when I could be getting smarter? And I do that
through taking on challenges. I do that through seeing them through."

Professor Dweck continues, “When you call someone smart, you put them on
a pedestal. And their life becomes organized around deserving the
pedestal. And you can only do that by narrowing your life to include
only things you’re sure you can succeed at. When we tell someone, you
did that so quickly, I’m so impressed, they hear, if I didn’t do it
quickly, you wouldn’t be impressed. A lot of things take a long time. Or
you got an A without working, then they think, oh, if I work, you’re not
going to think I’m smart at math, say. And so you’re just very subtly
conveying these ideas that smart people don’t make mistakes, smart
people don’t have to work hard, the most important thing in the world is
to be smart and look smart at all times. And then people start narrowing
their world so they can succeed within that fixed mindset."

The Fixed Mindset where people are psychologically blocked from
exploring something new reminds me of my experience with fellow Hewlett
Packard engineers. Liza taught a weekly lunchtime SCD class at HP, with
John Shaw and myself as support members. A surprising result was that
the great majority of these supposedly creative engineers lacked the
curiosity to walk 100 feet to a conference room to try something new. We
can read the 2006 newsletter item titled
[[http://www.rscds-swws.org/news/200603/vol22-5.htm|Scottish Country
Dance Comes to Hewlett Packard]].

Another psychology factor is the Identity model, compared with the
Consequences model, for how people make decisions, described by the
Heath Brothers in their book titled Switch. The rational side of the
brain uses the Consequences model and weighs the costs and benefits of
our options, and makes the choice that maximizes our satisfaction. The
stronger emotional side of the brain uses the Identity model to evaluate
a situation and ask, “What would someone like me do in this situation?"
As we develop and grow in an identity, it becomes an increasingly
important part of our self-image and influences our decision making, to
join a social group for example.

We can use these concepts in order to recruit and retain dancers. Given
that most people have a strong fixed mindset when they consider trying
Scottish dance, we need to communicate emotionally compelling marketing
messages that avoid triggering feeling or looking stupid, and instead
focus on other beneficial feelings. Many people are lonely and are
interested in making new friends. Some people are interested in moving
to the music. Some are interested in the challenge to learn new dance
skills. Some would like a lifelong activity to lose weight or remain
healthy. Women are more open to trying dance compared with men; women
will often bring their men with them or else they come solo and report
back how much fun they had.

As new dancers continue to learn the dance skills, the teacher can
communicate the Growth Mindset expectation that making a lot of mistakes
is part of dancing and it’s nothing to get excited about, and teach
recovery from mistakes as a useful skill. We can read the related
newsletter item titled
[[http://www.rscds-swws.org/news/stories/mistakes.htm|Gold Star!
Recovery Is Important, Not the Mistake]].

For retaining dancers, as they continue to make friends and learn the
dancing skills, they develop an identity with the dance group. The
friendships build group loyalty with the dancing skill as the common
interest, and some members will be keen to develop their dancing with
the Growth Mindset.

References:
 .[[http://www.rscds-swws.org/news/stories/GrowthMindset-CarolDweck.pdf|Carol Dweck: The Growth Mindset - Talks at Google]]
 .[[http://www.rscds-swws.org/doc/switch-chapter7.pdf|Heath Brothers: Switch - Chapter 7 -- Grow Your People - Identity and Mindsets]]

== Scotland 2016, Part Three  ==
by Martin MacKenzie

'''W'''ith this last report, detailing what I call the third and final
leg of our journey, we traveled from Aberdeen, down the eastern seaboard
of Scotland towards Perth, then on to Edinburgh for two days and back to
Glasgow for the final flight home.

This was to be the final leg with the rental car and to me at least,
this was the most like driving in the states than most all other
journeys driving around Scotland. We largely travelled down the A90, a
bit like a mini-freeway that goes down the east coast. There was a
somewhat familiar reader board admonishing drivers to visit a tourist
web site. Out with this, I remembered very little advertising of any
kind by the side of the road attempting to entice passersby. Sadly, we
of need passed by famous places loaded with historical significance we
had not the time to visit like Montrose, Abroath, St. Andrews and the
like.

Upon arrival back at Perth to drop off the rental car and the unusable
GPS, we learned from the young representative that a non functional
cigarette lighter jack was not de rigueur and the odd hard starting when
the vehicle was warm from a long drive wasn’t normal. Thus though this
driver was just a little bit miffed, however the representative, like
everyone we had met in Scotland was appropriately and sincerely
apologetic thus helping to smooth over any remaining ruffled feathers. I
chuckled a wee bit under my breath when I learned that the
representative was from England and the car itself had been sent up from
there.

After the rental agency dropped us off at Perth railway station, we
headed down to Edinburgh with only minor confusion interpreting reader
boards and selecting correct trains. It was also helpful to have on
board WiFi so that the navigation software could be used to confirm or
deny the accuracy of train selection during the journey after boarding.
The train on this leg was almost empty thus there weren’t many
opportunities to meet local Scots outside of the cities and towns.

Upon arrival at Haymarket station, just a short walk across the street,
and many tram tracks, we make our way to the Tune Hotel. This is an
Indonesian owned and run chain which is billed as inexpensive lodging,
which we found to not be true during the high season of tourism in
Edinburgh. This was an über modern facility with rfid card access to
everything, and that means everything, including power to the room
itself. The room was barely large enough for the bed, the toilet
facilities, and its occupants. This was the antithesis of historic
hotels, friendly B & Bs, or very fancy properties loaded with old world
charm that we had experienced heretofore. However, it served us well
enough and the hotel had a relationship with the restaurant next door to
us called Platform 5, I believe in reference to one of the platforms at
Haymarket railway station across the street. The quality was quite good,
the staff friendly and helpful and this was quite handy to have access
to without going out to the street when Scotland’s weather had a mood
change.

{{{#!html
<img src="../images/gg_july_2017_5.jpg" alt="Near Grayfriar’s Church" width="500" height="334" style="float: right; margin-right: 1em;"/></img>
}}}

Edinburgh itself, particularly at this time of the year, is chockablock
with tourists, musicians, actors, comedians, buskers and poets as well
as odd characters like Darth Vader and the famous alien from Ridley
Scott’s Alien series. This was during the Edinburgh Fringe or Festival,
known the world over. The city itself is Scotland’s capital city, its
second largest, and goes back in Scottish history as far back as
approximately 8500 BC. More detail can be found at:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edinburgh

Again, as in Glasgow early on in the journey, we took in a Viator hop on
hop off bus tour which we gained after taking the train to Waverly
station in the downtown core. It was again helpful at least in gaining a
minimum understanding of the historic downtown core. Locations, sites,
and statuary included the new Scottish parliament building, St. Gile’s
Church and Greyfriar’s Bobby, Deacon Brodie’s Tavern, The National
Museum, The Sir Walter Scott memorial, Edinburgh Castle, and a famous
American Civil War president whom I’ll let the reader divine from the
photos.

Out with those, I observed some rather interesting quirks and characteristics.

Waverly railway station is also a mall. Inside is a large two story
McDonald’s there and this is a very popular haunt with teenagers. The
day we were running about town, we stopped there for a meal and though
we didn’t eat there, I scouted it out and the establishment was packed,
both floors full, with teenagers.

Edinburgh is also a very diverse city with folks having settled there
from all over the world.

One of our more interesting interactions was with a family run
restaurant that serves Middle Eastern dishes from Iraq, their country of
origin. As we’re fans of the recent series of Marvel movies, in homage
to the first Avengers movie I ordered schwarma, a dish I was familiar
with from having it in a restaurant in Gresham, Oregon. Their version
was more sandwich like being wrapped in Pita bread as a hand held dish
as opposed to what we had experienced at Gresham which was served more
formally in a plate. While eating, one of the family members sat down
and we had a short conversation with her and as I knew the movie
reference, asked her if she had seen the Avengers movie. She replied
that she had and loved it. I replied asking if she had watched it all
the way to the end past the credits, where there is a scene that where
all the Avengers characters are slumped around a table after the final
epic battle eating schwarma at Tony Starks favorite “schwarma joint."
She hadn’t and was very enthusiastic about renting the movie and seeing
that. Here’s a little bit about this dish here
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shawarma

Edinburgh, with all its gravitas as the capital city of Scotland, the
location of one of the most esteemed universities, the University of
Edinburgh, its history as the center of activities surrounding the
Scottish Enlightenment, and the stage upon which Robert Burns often
plied his trade is also a town full of ordinary people who are just like
folks you might encounter in the States.

{{{#!html
<img src="../images/gg_july_2017_3.jpg" alt="Scottish Parliament Building" width="500" height="334" style="float: left; margin-right: 1em;"/></img>
}}}

The second day of our visit in Edinburgh and though I had a method
planned to be transported up to the Castle Esplanade for the 2016
Edinburgh Military Tattoo, I decided to bin that in favor of taking a
taxi. The cab driver that picked us up and took us up to the Esplanade
area was an amiable sort who was willing to talk to American tourists
and being a long time Edinburgh resident, he was full of stories about
its history during his lifetime. I commented about the new Edinburgh
airport tram system and how slick and beautiful it is comparing it to
our own light rail system in the Portland Metropolitan area and that
prompted a conversation. Though he agreed that it was nice, he was none
too pleased as he remembered the days that there were electric trolleys
running all over town but these were then torn up and then decades later
replaced with this system which he groused, “cost £9bn for seven miles
of track."

Our last event in Edinburgh before departure the next day for home was
the 2016 Edinburgh Military Tattoo. If you want to experience a little
flavor of what this was like, BBC Alba has posted the entire Tattoo with
Gàidhlig commentary as well as English subtitles for you to enjoy at:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fvWGB8gDLDE We decided that our favorite
was the New Zealand Army Band. Scroll to 53:50 and see if you don’t
agree.

However, I want to give some more personal observations of this event
here. First, Scots are very proud of their traditions, military and
otherwise, and we could hear that when as they were responding to and
talking amongst themselves all about us about the various events during
the Tattoo. Secondly, there are bands and acts that come to participate,
audience members who come to enjoy the Tattoo, and staff people from all
over the world who come and work during that season. One example of the
latter was a young lady from Ohio we met who helped us recover from a
scheduling snafu on my part and find seats for us on ground level.
Lastly, this is an event with performers of all ages, not just seasoned
veterans. The Tattoo is also an event that is performed elsewhere in the
Commonwealth countries of Australia and New Zealand. Here’s an example
of this with the New Zealand Army Band playing in the Royal Edinburgh
Military Tattoo in Melbourne Australia this very year at:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Aw1Q2ktDLM

Sadly, the next day after that was the final leg of our journey
beginning with packing up and head back to Glasgow for our flight home.
However, interesting events were to continue. After riding the train
back to Glasgow, arriving at Queen Street station downtown, I whistled
up the cab company to arrange transport from Edinburgh to Glasgow.
Again, the Glasgwegian dialect was to play merry hob with my
communications abilities. Though the call center representative was
reasonably understandable, once the cab arrived, it was repeatedly
necessary to use the polite phrase “I’m sorry, my hearing isn’t so good"
several times as I discussed our needs with the cab driver. Of all
Glaswegians, his dialect was the most opaque. Having said that, he was
quite helpful and amiable and deposited us in good order at Glasgow
Airport for our flight home.

Once clearing security, we found one last surprise awaiting us. There
was a maze of shops arrayed along a well designed serpentine path
leading from the security screening area to our gate. Everything from
Scotch whiskeys to clothing to perfumes and miscellaneous Scottish
tourist foofoo like pens with Scottish flags printed on them were
available. Adam Smith of “An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the
Wealth of Nations” fame would have been proud. We gawked and annoyed one
shopkeeper when I inadvertently set off some kind of anti-theft alarm.
However, true to Scottish reputations for thriftiness, we did not leave
any more tourist dollars in Scotland.

All in all, a worthy journey for the MacKenzies of Clackamas. My only
regret was not having time to fully take in everything we saw and
experienced while we were there experiencing it.

Here’s something to listen to while you enjoy the final photos:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9vaRatJj1EQ
