{{{#!html
<img class="artwork" src="../images/gg_july_2013.jpg" alt="Linda Giving Maurice a Gift" width="641" height="547"/>
}}}
{{{#!wiki comment
pubdate = July/August 2013
}}}

<<TableOfContents()>>

== President's Message ==
by Linda Gertz

 

Summer is now with us. That means it is time for the Highland Games,
Saturday July 20! Join in by:


 1. Helping with our club dancing from 9:00-10:00 a.m. 
 2. Manning our table which provides information about all the different groups Vancouver way & in Oregon. 
 3. Helping out the Vancouver club when they dance at 1:00, 2:00 & 3:00 p.m.  
 4. Cheer on members from both of our clubs running The Kilted Mile!

Our club will be having a picnic on August 17 - so be expecting details on
it. Our first wonderful idea didn't work because the park lacked
restroomsSad smile The second wonderful idea didn't work because the park is
being taken over by a collectors boat & car show! So when we come up with
the third idea - it should be the charm!  So save August 17 for our next
great idea!

 

Our last class will be July 15. Then we won't meet again until September
9th. Wishing you all a fun & adventurous summer, with many tales to tell
when we rejoin in September!

 

 

== Teacher's Corner ==
by Debbie Mc Robert

 

This is the last Teacher's Corner article for this dance year. Wow, has time
flown! As I ponder what a teacher should be telling a class at the end of
the dance year, several thoughts go through my head.  Here are some of them.

 

 1.  Keep in touch with the dancing community even though you are not coming to class. 

  * Visit websites. Darrick has done a great job with our website (http://portlandscottishdancers.org). On our website you will find links to other websites to visit. You can also visit RSCDS's main website (http://www.rscds.org). 

  * Watch dances on You Tube. If you search for Scottish Country Dancing you will have hundreds of choices to watch. If you find a dance that looks fun to do, email the name of the dance to one of the teachers. We can add it to our dance list.

 2. If you have something you want to share with the teachers, please do! We are always open to new ideas. Do you have a dance you want to try? Do you have a suggestion for the monthly parties? Do you have an idea to attract new dancers? Call or email us. We'd be happy to listen to what you have to say.


 3. Remember the fun and make plans to return to class in September. I also ask that you spread the word to others you think might enjoy dancing.  

 4. I want to thank all of you for your contribution to our class. I especially want to thank you for being so welcoming to beginners. Each of you add so much to class with your smiles and cheery attitude. You are a great group of students. I hope to see all of you in September!


== Maurice Baxter Retirement Party ==
by Linda Gertz

 

For those who weren't there, you missed a nice party on June 3. The party
was in honor of Maurice Baxter retiring from dancing. We all enjoyed special
dances selected in Maurice and Rae's honor and many, many yummy treats to
keep us dancing! The club's gift to Maurice & Rae was a Heirloom rose called
"Country Dancer".  Maurice & Rae have been a wonderful part of our group and
will be missed.  

 

 

== 2013 Workshop and Ball ==
by Darrick Wong

 

In March of 2013, Portland hosted its 34th Annual Workshop and Ball, in Lake
Oswego. This time around, the ball was held in a wonderfully spacious church
with a gorgeous wood floor, which provided more than enough space for people
to socialize, catch up with the faraway dancers, and most importantly,
dance. People came from all around the area to attend our ball -- your
author recognized people from Seattle, the High Desert/Bend area, and San
Francisco.

The workshop was taught by Jim and Lea Maiolo of the Seattle
branch. The musicians for the ball were Deby Grosjean of Aptos, CA and Lisa
Scott from the local branch. The Maiolo's were instrumental in helping
people tighten up their technique, which made our ball program that much
more fun to dance late into the night! Many thanks to our local teachers Don
Gertz, Linda Mae Dennis, Richard Juzix for calling the dances, and
especially to Linda Gertz and Debbie Mc Robert for putting everything
together. If you went to the ball, we hope you had a good time, and we'll
see you all in 2014!

 

 

== The Tartan and the Fiddle ==
by Holly Gibson

 

Every year whoever is lucky enough to chair the workshop and ball has many
important decisions to make, one of which is the theme. They've ranged from
Scottie dogs to flowers and each year the decorating team has done a
wonderful job. This year, the theme was the fiddle and the tartan,
specifically the Oregon State tartan. If you do a Google search of the words
"tartan" and "Oregon state" you're likely to have your eyes assaulted with
graphics of blankets and scarves splashed with Oregon State University's
colors of orange and black. Fortunately, the State of Oregon tartan is a bit
more subdued. Designed in 2002 by Robert Harding, the tartan was adopted in
April 2003. Each color represents a certain region or aspect of the state:
the dark blue (almost purple) is from the Oregon flag and also represents
the ocean and the various rivers in the state, gold, also from the Oregon
flag, is for the farming regions, the white stripe is for the snowy
mountains, the light brown background represents the high desert and
grassland areas, the lighter blue is for other bodies of water and the
(sometimes) blue skies, and finally the black is for the obsidian buttes of
Central Oregon. The only color that seems to be missing is green, for all
the moss.

 

The history of the violin, or in our case the fiddle, is not nearly so cut
and dried. The term "fiddle" itself is thought to come from the Irish
"fidil," but again, no one is sure of that. It actually required a trip to
the library in order to find something semi-reliable about the history of
the fiddle. According to An Encyclopedia of the Violin (and you should have
seen the what-kind-of-a-music-nerd-is-this look the library clerk tried not
to give me when I checked it out), among the predecessors of the violin are
the crewth, rebec, and the viol. Their origins and how they arrived in the
British Isles is now lost to us, although one theory is that these stringed
instruments were brought back during the Crusades. There is a reference from
1490 in the accounts of King Charles VIII regarding a payment to Raymond
Monnet, a rebec player, and in 1526 the rebec was listed as being in the
state band of Henry VIII, along with 15 trumpets, three lutes, three
taborets, a harp, two viols, four drums, a fife, and ten sackbuts. No
mention is made of partridges and pear trees, but they're notoriously
difficult to tune, which most likely accounts for their absence. 

 

As for when the fiddle first appeared in Scotland, more speculation ensues.
One theory suggests a Scandinavian influence, but the general consensus is
nobody knows for sure. However, what is distinctive to Scotland is the music
that was played on the fiddle and how important that fiddle music became to
society. There are reports of fiddles being played for both Mary Queen of
Scots and James V, and the fiddle quickly became part of Scottish culture.
The first collection of fiddle music indigenous to Scotland was published in
1757 and by the late 18th century, there was a vibrant tradition of fiddle
music for all kinds of occasions, including dancing, which we are so
fortunate to be part of all these centuries later.

 

 

== Youth Weekend West 2013 ==
by Darrick Wong

 

In early May, the Southwest Washington State RSCDS branch hosted the annual
Youth Weekend West workshop, ceilidh, and ball in Vancouver, Washington.
Youth Weekend was started about ten years ago to encourage intermixing of
young dancers, typically between the ages of fifteen and thirty, between the
various branches on the west coast of North America.  This year, there were
many participants from Seattle, Bellingham, both Vancouvers, Oregon, and
California.

 

The weekend kicked off on Friday night with a welcome ceilidh.  Chris
Skagen, a longtime local piper and founder of a local pipe band, piped the
dancers into our intimate dance studio. Cynthia Soohoo and Maggie Hannahs,
our local musician/dancers, played lively tunes all evening for us to dance
to. A great time was had by all, as we danced modern favorites such as ''The
Reel of the Royal Scots'' and ''The Piper and the Penguin'', and finished
off the night with a bouncy polka! There was a fantastic energy in the air
that night that will be remembered by all for years to come.

 

Saturday morning, there were instructional classes to help dancers learn new
figures and to hone their technique. In the afternoon, various elective
classes were offered, such as the Zombie Dance and folk dances of Normandy.
After taking a break, everyone reconvened in the evening at the Southwest
Washington branch's annual dinner ball. It was a pleasure to mix young and
old dancers on the floor, as the author observed more than a few of the
young dancers sneaking in a few flourishes towards the end of the ball! Lisa
Scott, Leslie Hirsch, and Linda Danielson helped us dance the night away to
their wonderful music.

 

On Sunday, those who were capable of at least some hobbling joined in for an
easygoing class. The dancers learned one of the author's tricky strathspeys,
and danced ''Unstoppable Kate'' as a tribute to Kathlleen Mintz, the main
Youth Weekend West organizer. We organizers are grateful to Linda Mae Dennis
and Lea Maiolo for teaching classes.

 

If you are a dancer who is young in spirit and enjoys energetic dances,
please join us at next year's Youth Weekend West!  A venue has not yet been
selected for next year, so please stay tuned to http://youthweekendwest.com for
details!

 

 

 

 

 

 






 

 

 

